Recommendations with Negative Feedback via
Pairwise Deep Reinforcement Learning
Xiangyu Zhao
Data Science and Engineering Lab
Michigan State University
zhaoxi35@msu.eduLiang Zhang
Data Science Lab
Intelligent Advertising Lab
JD.com
zhangliang16@jd.comZhuoye Ding
Data Science Lab
JD.com
dingzhuoye@jd.com
Long Xia
Data Science Lab
JD.com
xialong@jd.comJiliang Tang
Data Science and Engineering Lab
Michigan State University
tangjili@msu.eduDawei Yin
Data Science Lab
JD.com
yindawei@acm.org
ABSTRACT
Recommender systems play a crucial role in mitigating the problem
of information overload by suggesting users’ personalized items
or services. The vast majority of traditional recommender systems
consider the recommendation procedure as a static process and
make recommendations following a fixed strategy. In this paper,
we propose a novel recommender system with the capability of
continuously improving its strategies during the interactions with
users. We model the sequential interactions between users and a
recommender system as a Markov Decision Process (MDP) and
leverage Reinforcement Learning (RL) to automatically learn the
optimal strategies via recommending trial-and-error items and re-
ceiving reinforcements of these items from users’ feedback. Users’
feedback can be positive and negative and both types of feedback
have great potentials to boost recommendations. However, the
number of negative feedback is much larger than that of positive
one; thus incorporating them simultaneously is challenging since
positive feedback could be buried by negative one. In this paper, we
develop a novel approach to incorporate them into the proposed
deep recommender system (DEERS) framework. The experimental
results based on real-world e-commerce data demonstrate the ef-
fectiveness of the proposed framework. Further experiments have
been conducted to understand the importance of both positive and
negative feedback in recommendations.
KEYWORDS
Recommender System, Deep Reinforcement Learning, Pairwise
Deep Q-Network.
ACM Reference Format:
Xiangyu Zhao, Liang Zhang, Zhuoye Ding, Long Xia, Jiliang Tang, and Dawei
Yin. 2018. Recommendations with Negative Feedback via Pairwise Deep
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
KDD ’18, August 19–23, 2018, London, United Kingdom
©2018 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-x-xxxx-xxxx-x/YY/MM. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnnReinforcement Learning. In KDD ’18: The 24th ACM SIGKDD International
Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining, August 19–23, 2018, Lon-
don, United Kingdom. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. https://doi.org/10.
1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn
1 INTRODUCTION
Recommender systems are intelligent E-commerce applications.
They assist users in their information-seeking tasks by suggesting
items (products, services, or information) that best fit their needs
and preferences. Recommender systems have become increasingly
popular in recent years, and have been utilized in a variety of do-
mains including movies, music, books, search queries, and social
tags [ 23,24]. Typically, a recommendation procedure can be mod-
eled as interactions between users and recommender agent (RA). It
consists of two phases: 1) user model construction and 2) recommen-
dation generation [ 14]. During the interaction, the recommender
agent builds a user model to learn users’ preferences based on users’
information or feedback. Then, the recommender agent generates
a list of items that best match users’ preferences.
Most existing recommender systems including collaborative fil-
tering, content-based and learning-to-rank consider the recommen-
dation procedure as a static process and make recommendations
following a fixed greedy strategy. However, these approaches may
fail given the dynamic nature of the users’ preferences. Further-
more, the majority of existing recommender systems are designed
to maximize the immediate (short-term) reward of recommenda-
tions, i.e., to make users purchase the recommended items, while
completely overlooking whether these recommended items will
lead to more profitable (long-term) rewards in the future [25].
In this paper, we consider the recommendation procedure as
sequential interactions between users and recommender agent; and
leverage Reinforcement Learning (RL) to automatically learn the
optimal recommendation strategies. Recommender systems based
on reinforcement learning have two advantages. First, they are able
to continuously update their try-and-error strategies during the
interactions, until the system converges to the optimal strategy that
generates recommendations best fitting their users’ dynamic prefer-
ences. Second, the models in the system are trained via estimating
the present value with delayed rewards under current states and
actions. The optimal strategy is made by maximizing the expected
long-term cumulative reward from users. Therefore the systemarXiv:1802.06501v3  [cs.IR]  10 Aug 2018KDD ’18, August 19–23, 2018, London, United Kingdom Xiangyu Zhao et al.
Figure 1: Impact of negative feedback on recommendations.
could identify items with small immediate rewards but making big
contributions to the rewards for future recommendations.
Efforts have been made on utilizing reinforcement learning for
recommender systems [ 25,27]. For instance, the work [ 25] mod-
eled the recommender system as a MDP process and estimated
the transition probability and then the Q-value table. However,
these methods may become inflexible with the increasing num-
ber of items for recommendations. This prevents them from being
adopted in e-commence recommender systems. Thus, we leverage
Deep Q-Network (DQN), an (adapted) artificial neural network,
as a non-linear approximator to estimate the action-value func-
tion in RL. This model-free reinforcement learning method does
not estimate the transition probability and not store the Q-value
table. This makes it flexible to support huge amount of items in
recommender systems. It can also enrich the system’s generaliza-
tion compared to traditional approaches that estimate action-value
function separately for each sequence.
When we design recommender systems, positive feedback(clicked
/ordered feedback) represents the users’ preference and thus is the
most important information to make recommendations. In reality,
users also skip some recommended items during the recommen-
dation procedure. These skipped items influence user’s click/order
behaviors [ 6], which can help us gain better understandings about
users’ preferences. Hence, it is necessary to incorporate such nega-
tive feedback. However, the number of skipped items (or negative
feedback) is typically far larger than that of positive ones. Hence,
it is challenging to capture both positive and negative feedback
since positive feedback could be buried by negative one. In this
paper, we propose a framework DEERS to model positive and nega-
tive feedback simultaneously. As shown in Figure 1, when items
are skipped by a user, traditional recommender systems do not
update their strategies, and still recommend similar items; while
the proposed framework can capture these negative feedback and
update the strategy for recommendations. We summarize our major
contributions as follows:
•We identify the importance of negative feedback from the rec-
ommendation procedure and provide a principled approach
to capture it for recommendations;•We propose a deep reinforcement learning based framework
DEERS, which can automatically learn the optimal recom-
mendation strategies by incorporating positive and negative
feedback;
•We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed framework
in real-world e-commerce data and validate the importance
of negative feedback in accurate recommendations.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we
formally define the problem of recommender system via reinforce-
ment learning. In Section 3, we provide approaches to model the
recommending procedure as sequential user-agent interactions and
introduce details about employing deep reinforcement learning
to automatically learn the optimal recommendation strategies via
offline-training. Section 4 carries out experiments based on real-
word offline users’ behavior log and presents experimental results.
Section 5 briefly reviews related work. Finally, Section 6 concludes
this work and discusses our future work.
2 PROBLEM STATEMENT
We study the recommendation task in which a recommender agent
(RA) interacts with environment E(or users) by sequentially choos-
ing recommendation items over a sequence of time steps, so as
to maximize its cumulative reward. We model this problem as a
Markov Decision Process (MDP), which includes a sequence of
states, actions and rewards. More formally, MDP consists of a tuple
of five elements(S,A,P,R,γ)as follows:
•State spaceS: A state st∈S is defined as the browsing
history of a user before time t. The items in stare sorted in
chronological order.
•Action spaceA: The action at∈A of RA is to recommend
items to a user at time t. Without the loss of generality, we
assume that the agent only recommends one item to the user
each time. Note that it is straightforward to extend it with
recommending multiple items.
•RewardR: After the RA taking an action atat the state st,
i.e., recommending an item to a user, the user browses this
item and provides her feedback. She can skip (not click), click,
or order this item, and the RA receives immediate reward
r(st,at)according to the user’s feedback.
•Transition probability P: Transition probability p(st+1|st,at)
defines the probability of state transition from sttost+1
when RA takes action at. We assume that the MDP satisfies
p(st+1|st,at, ...,s1,a1)=p(st+1|st,at).
•Discount factor γ:γ∈[0,1]defines the discount factor
when we measure the present value of future reward. In
particular, when γ=0, RA only considers the immediate
reward. In other words, when γ=1, all future rewards can
be counted fully into that of the current action.
Figure 2 illustrates the agent-user interactions in MDP. With
the notations and definitions above, the problem of item recom-
mendation can be formally defined as follows: Given the historical
MDP, i.e.,(S,A,P,R,γ), the goal is to find a recommendation policy
π:S→A , which can maximize the cumulative reward for the
recommender system.Recommendations with Negative Feedback via
Pairwise Deep Reinforcement Learning KDD ’18, August 19–23, 2018, London, United Kingdom
AgentRecommenderst+1rt+1action atreward rt
Usersstate st
Figure 2: The agent-user interactions in MDP.
3 THE PROPOSED FRAMEWORK BASED ON
DEEP REINFORCEMENT LEARNING WITH
NEGATIVE FEEDBACKS
Negative feedback dominates users’ feedback to items and positive
feedback could be buried by negative one if we aim to capture them
simultaneously. Thus in this section, we first propose a basic model
that only considers positive feedback (clicked/ordered items) into
the state. We build the deep reinforcement learning framework un-
der this setting. After that, we consider negative feedback (skipped
items) in the state space and redesign the deep architecture. Finally,
we discuss how to train the framework via offline users’ behavior
log and how to utilize the framework for item recommendations.
3.1 The Basic DQN Model
The positive items represent the key information about users’ pref-
erence, i.e., which items the users prefer to. A good recommender
system should recommend the items users prefer the most. Thus,
we only consider the positive feedback into the state in the basic
model. More formally, we redefine the state and transition process
for the basic model below:
•State s: State s={i1,···,iN}∈S is defined as the previous
Nitems that a user clicked/ordered recently. The items in
state sare sorted in chronological order.
•Transition from stos′: When RA recommends item a
at state sto a user, the user may skip, click, or order the
item. If the user skips the item, then the next state s′=s;
while if the user clicks/orders the item, then the next state
s′={i2,···,iN,a}.
Note that in reality, using discrete indexes to denote items is
not sufficient since we cannot know the relations between differ-
ent items only from indexes. One common way is to use extra
information to represent items. For instance, we can use the at-
tribute information like brand, price, sale per month, etc. Instead
of extra item information, our model uses the RA/user interaction
information, i.e., users’ browsing history. We treat each item as a
word and the clicked items in one recommendation session as a
sentence. Then, we can obtain dense and low-dimensional vector
representations for items by word embedding[11].
As shown is Figure 2, by interacting with the environment (users),
recommender agent takes actions (recommends items) to users in
such a way that maximizes the expected return, which includes the
delayed rewards. We follow the standard assumption that delayed
rewards are discounted by a factor of γper time-step, and define the
action-value function Q(s,a)as the expected return based on state
sand action a. The optimal action-value function Q∗(s,a), which
h1h2state saction aQ(s, a)Figure 3: The architecture of the basic DQN model for rec-
ommendations.
has the maximum expected return achievable by the optimal policy,
should follow the Bellman equation [2] as:
Q∗(s,a)=Es′
r+γmax
a′Q∗(s′,a′)|s,a
. (1)
In real recommender systems, the state and action spaces are
enormous, thus estimating Q∗(s,a)by using the Bellman equation
for each state-action pair is infeasible. In addition, many state-action
pairs may not appear in the real trace such that it is hard to update
their values. Therefore, it is more flexible and practical to use an
approximator function to estimate the action-value function, i.e.,
Q∗(s,a)≈Q(s,a;θ). In practice, the action-value function is usually
highly nonlinear. Deep neural networks are known as excellent
approximators for non-linear functions. In this paper, We refer to
a neural network function approximator with parameters θas a
Q-network. A Q-network can be trained by minimizing a sequence
of loss functions L(θ)as:
L(θ)=Es,a,r,s′
(y−Q(s,a;θ))2
, (2)
wherey=Es′[r+γmax a′Q(s′,a′;θp)|s,a]is the target for the
current iteration. The parameters from the previous iteration θp
are fixed when optimizing the loss function L(θ). The derivatives
of loss function L(θ)with respective to parameters θare presented
as follows:
∇θL(θ)=Es,a,r,s′
(r+γmax
a′Q(s′,a′;θp)
−Q(s,a;θ))∇θQ(s,a;θ)
.(3)
In practice, it is often computationally efficient to optimize the
loss function by stochastic gradient descent, rather than computing
the full expectations in the above gradient. Figure 3 illustrates the
architecture of basic DQN model.
3.2 The Proposed DEERS Framework
As previously discussed, the items that users skipped can also indi-
cate users’ preferences, i.e., what users may not like. However, the
system with only positive items will not change its state or update
its strategy when users skip the recommended items. Thus, the state
should not only contain positive items that user clicked or ordered,
but also incorporate negative (skipped) items. To integrate negativeKDD ’18, August 19–23, 2018, London, United Kingdom Xiangyu Zhao et al.
items into the model, we redefine state and transition process as
follows:
•State s:s=(s+,s−)∈Sis a state, where s+={i1,···,iN}
is defined as the previous Nitems that a user clicked or
ordered recently, and s−={j1,···,jN}is the previous N
items that the user skipped recently. The items in s+ands−
are processed in chronological order.
•Transition from stos′: When RA recommends item aat
state s=(s+,s−)to a user, if users skip the recommended
item, we keep s′+=s+and update s′−={j2,···,jN,a}.
If users click or order the recommended item, update s′+=
{i2,···,iN,a}, while keeping s′−=s−. Then set s′=(s′+,s′−).
We can see from the new definition that no matter users accept
or skip recommendations, the new system will incorporate the
feedback for next recommendations. Also it can distinguish positive
and negative feedback with s+ands−.
3.2.1 The Architecture of DEERS Framework .In this ap-
proach, we concatenate positive state s+and a recommended item
aas positive input (positive signals), while concatenating nega-
tive state s−and the recommended item aas the negative input
(negative signals). Rather than following the basic reinforcement
learning architecture in Figure 3, we construct DQN in a novel way.
Figure 4 illustrates our new DQN architecture. Instead of just con-
catenating clicked/ordered items {i1,···,iN}as positive state s+,
we introduce a RNN with Gated Recurrent Units (GRU) to capture
users’ sequential preference as positive state s+:
zn=σ(Wzin+Uzhn−1), (4)
rn=σ(Wrin+Urhn−1), (5)
ˆhn=tanh[W in+U(rn·hn−1)], (6)
hn=(1−zn)hn−1+znˆhn, (7)
where GRU utilizes an update gate znto generate a new state and a
reset gate rnto control the input of the former state hn−1. The inputs
of GRU are the embeddings of user’s recently clicked /ordered items
{i1,···,iN}, while we use the output (final hidden state hN) as
the representation of the positive state, i.e., s+=hN. We obtain
negative state s−following a similar way. Here we leverage GRU
rather than Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) because that GRU
outperforms LSTM for capturing users’ sequential behaviors in
recommendation task [8].
As shown in Figure 4, we feed positive input (positive signals)
and negative input (negative signals) separately in the input layer.
Also, different from traditional fully connected layers, we separate
the first few hidden layers for positive input and negative input.
The intuition behind this architecture is to recommend an item that
is similar to the clicked/ordered items (left part), while dissimilar to
the skipped items (right part). This architecture can assist DQN to
capture distinct contributions of the positive and negative feedback
to recommendations.
Then, the loss function L(θ)for an iteration of the new deep
Q-network training can be rewritten as:
L(θ)=Es,a,r,s′ 
y−Q(s+,s−,a;θ)2
, (8)
…………h1h1h2s−s+aQ(s+,s−,a)
GRU+NGRU+1GRU−NGRU−1iNi1jNj1aFigure 4: The architecture of the DEERS framework.
wherey=Es′[r+γmax a′Q(s′+,s′−,a′;θp)|s+,s−,a]is the target of
current iteration. Then, the gradient of loss function with respect
to theθcan be computed as:
∇θL(θ)=Es,a,r,s′ 
r+γmax
a′Q(s′
+,s′
−,a′;θp)
−Q(s+,s−,a;θ)
∇θQ(s+,s−,a;θ)
.(9)
To decrease the computational cost of Equation (9), we adopt
item recalling mechanism to reduce the number of relevant items1.
3.2.2 The Pairwise Regularization Term .With deep inves-
tigations on the users’ logs, we found that in most recommendation
sessions, the RA recommends some items belong to the same cate-
gory (e.g. telephone), while users click/order a part of them and skip
others. We illustrate a real example of a recommendation session
in Table 1, in which three categories of items are recommended
to user, and each time the RA recommends one item to the user.
For category B, we can observe that the user clicked item a2while
skipped item a5, which indicates the partial order of user’s prefer-
ence over these two items in category B. This partial order naturally
inspires us maximizing the difference of Q-values between Q(s2,a2)
andQ(s5,a5). At time 2, we name a5as the competitor item ofa2.
Sometimes, one item could have multiple “competitor” items; thus
we select the item at the closest time as the “competitor” item. For
example, at time 3, a3’s competitor item is a1rather than a6. Overall,
we select one target item’s competitor item according to three re-
quirements: 1) the “competitor” item belongs to the same category
with the target item; 2) user gives different types of feedback to the
1In general, user’s current preference should be related to user’s previous
clicked/ordered items (say Lp). Thus for each item in Lp, we collect a number
of most similar items from the whole item space, and combine all collected items as
the item space for current recommendation session.Recommendations with Negative Feedback via
Pairwise Deep Reinforcement Learning KDD ’18, August 19–23, 2018, London, United Kingdom
Table 1: An illustrative example of a recommendation ses-
sion.
Time State Item Category Feedback
1 s1 a1 A skip
2 s2 a2 B click
3 s3 a3 A click
4 s4 a4 C skip
5 s5 a5 B skip
6 s6 a6 A skip
7 s7 a7 C order
“competitor” item and the target item; and 3) the “competitor” item
is at the closest time to the target item.
To maximize the difference of Q-values between target and com-
petitor items, we add a regularization term to Equation 8:
L(θ)=Es,a,r,s′ 
y−Q(s+,s−,a;θ)2
−α
Q(s+,s−,a;θ)−Q(s+,s−,aC;θ)2
,(10)
wherey=Es′[r+γmax a′Q(s′+,s′−,a′;θp)|s+,s−,a]is the target
for the iteration. The second term aims to maximize the difference
of Q-values between target item aand competitor item aCat state
(s+,s−), which is controlled by a non-negative parameter α. Note
that since user’s preference is relatively stable during a short time
slot [ 30], we assume that user will give same feedback to aCat state
(s+,s−). For example, if RA recommends item a5at state s2, the user
will still skip a5. The gradient of loss function can be computed as:
∇θL(θ)=Es,a,r,s′ 
y−Q(s+,s−,a;θ)
∇θQ(s+,s−,a;θ)
−α
Q(s+,s−,a;θ)−Q(s+,s−,aC;θ)

∇θQ(s+,s−,a;θ)−∇ θQ(s+,s−,aC;θ) 
.(11)
3.3 Off-policy Training Task
With the proposed deep reinforcement learning framework, we can
train the parameters in models and then do the test work. We train
the proposed model based on users’ offline log, which records the
interaction history between RA’s policy b(st)and users’ feedback.
RA takes the action based on the off-policy b(st)and obtain the
feedback from the offline log. We present our off-policy training
algorithm in details shown in Algorithm 1. Note that our algorithm
ismodel-free : it solves the reinforcement learning task directly using
samples from the environment, without explicitly constructing an
estimate of the environment.
In each iteration on a training recommendation session, there
are two stages. For storing transitions stage: given the state st,
the recommender agent first recommends an item atfrom a fixed
off-policy b(st)(line 7), which follows a standard off-policy way
[5]; then the agent observes the reward rtfrom users (line 8) and
updates the state to st+1(line 9) and try to find the competitor itemAlgorithm 1 Off-policy Training of DEERS Framework.
1:Initialize the capacity of replay memory D
2:Initialize action-value function Qwith random weights
3:forsession =1,Mdo
4: Initialize state s0from previous sessions
5: fort=1,Tdo
6: Observe state st={i1,···,iN,j1,···,jN}
7: Execute action atfollowing off-policy b(st)
8: Observe reward rtfrom users
9: Setst+1={i2,···,iN,at,j1,···,jN}rt>0
{i1,···,iN,j2,···,jN,at}rt=0
10: Find competitor item aC
tofat
11: Store transition(st,at,rt,st+1,aC
t/null)inD
12: Sample minibatch of transitions (s,a,r,s′,aC/null)from
D
13: Sety=r terminal s′
r+γmax a′Q(s′,a′;θ)non−terminal s′
14: ifaCexists then
15: Minimize y−Q(s,a;θ)2−α Q(s,a;θ)−Q(s,aC;θ)2
according to Equ (11)
16: else
17: Minimize y−Q(s,a;θ)2according to Equ (9)
18: end if
19: end for
20:end for
aC
t(line 10); and finally the recommender agent stores transitions
(st,at,rt,st+1,aC
t/null)into replay memory D(line 11). For model
training stage: the recommender agent samples minibatch of tran-
sitions(s,a,r,s′,aC/null)from replay memory D(line 12), and
then updates the parameters according to Equation (9) or Equation
(11) (lines 13-18).
In the algorithm, we introduce widely used techniques to train
our framework. For example, we utilize a technique known as expe-
rience replay [12] (lines 1,11,12), and introduce separated evaluation
and target networks [ 16], which can help smooth the learning and
avoid the divergence of parameters. Moreover, we leverage priori-
tized sampling strategy [18] to assist the framework learning from
the most important historical transitions.
3.4 Offline Test
In the previous subsection, we have discussed how to train a DQN-
based recommender model. Now we formally present the offline
test of our proposed framework DEERS.
The intuition of our offline test method is that, for a given rec-
ommendation session, the recommender agent reranks the items
in this session according to the items’ Q-value calculated by the
trained DQN, and recommends the item with maximal Q-value to
the user. Then the recommender agent observes the reward from
users and updates the state. The reason why recommender agent
only reranks items in this session rather than items in the whole
item space is that for the historical offline dataset, we only have
the ground truth rewards of the existing items in this session. The
offline test algorithm in details is presented in Algorithm 2.KDD ’18, August 19–23, 2018, London, United Kingdom Xiangyu Zhao et al.
Algorithm 2 Offline Test of DEERS Framework.
Input : Initial state s1, items l1,···,lTand corresponding rewards
r1,···,rTof a sessionL.
Output :Recommendation list with new order
1:fort=1,Tdo
2: Observe state st={i1,···,iN,j1,···,jN}
3: Calculate Q-values of items in L
4: Recommend item lmax with maximal Q-value
5: Observe reward rtfrom users (historical logs)
6: Setst+1={i2,···,iN,lmax ,j1,···,jN}r>0
{i1,···,iN,j2,···,jN,lmax}r=0
7: Remove lmax fromL
8:end for
In each iteration of a test recommendation session L, given the
state st(line 2), the recommender agent recommends an item lmax
with maximal Q-value calculated by the trained DQN (lines 3-4),
then observes the reward rtfrom users (line 5) and updates the
state to st+1(line 6), and finally it removes item lmax fromL(line
7). Without the loss of generality, the RA recommends one item
to the user each time, while it is straightforward to extend it by
recommending multiple items.
3.5 Online Test
We also do online test on a simulated online environment. The
simulated online environment is also trained on users’ logs, but not
on the same data for training the DEERS framework. The simulator
has the similar architecture with DEERS, while the output layer is
a softmax layer that predicts the immediate feedback according to
current state stand a recommended item at. We test the simulator
on users’ logs(not the data for training the DEERS framework and
simulator), and experimental results demonstrate that the simu-
lated online environment has overall 90% precision for immediate
feedback prediction task. This result suggests that the simulator
can accurately simulate the real online environment and predict
the online rewards, which enables us to test our model on it.
When test DEERS framework on the well trained simulator, we
can feed current state stand a recommended item atinto the sim-
ulator, and receive immediate reward r(st,at)from it. The online
test algorithm in details is presented in Algorithm 3. Note that we
can control the length of the session (the value T) manually.
Algorithm 3 Online Test of DEERS Framework.
1:Initialize action-value function Qwith well trained weights
2:forsession =1,Mdo
3: Initialize state s1from previous sessions
4: fort=1,Tdo
5: Observe state st={i1,···,iN,j1,···,jN}
6: Execute action atfollowing policy π
7: Observe reward rtfrom users (online simulator)
8: Setst+1={i2,···,iN,at,j1,···,jN}rt>0
{i1,···,iN,j2,···,jN,at}rt=0
9: end for
10:end forIn each iteration of a test recommendation session L, given the
state st(line 5), the RA recommends an item atfollowing policy
π(line 6), which is obtained in model training stage. Then the RA
feed standatinto the simulated online environment and observes
the reward rt(line 7) and updates the state to st+1(line 8).
4 EXPERIMENTS
In this section, we conduct extensive experiments with a dataset
from a real e-commerce site to evaluate the effectiveness of the
proposed framework. We mainly focus on two questions: (1) how
the proposed framework performs compared to representative base-
lines; and (2) how the negative feedback (skipped items) contribute
to the performance. We first introduce experimental settings. Then
we seek answers to the above two questions. Finally, we study the
impact of important parameters on the performance of the proposed
framework.
4.1 Experimental Settings
We evaluate our method on a dataset of September, 2017 from
JD.com. We collect 1,000,000 recommendation sessions (9,136,976
items) in temporal order, and use first 70% as training set and other
30% as test set. For a given session, the initial state is collected
from the previous sessions of the user. In this paper, we leverage
N=10previously clicked/ordered items as positive state and
N=10previously skipped items as negative state. The reward r
of skipped/clicked/ordered items are empirically set as 0, 1, and
5, respectively. The dimension of the embedding of items is 50,
and we set the discounted factor γ=0.95. For the parameters
of the proposed framework such as αandγ, we select them via
cross-validation. Correspondingly, we also do parameter-tuning for
baselines for a fair comparison. We will discuss more details about
parameter selection for the proposed framework in the following
subsections.
For the architecture of Deep Q-network, we leverage a 5-layer
neural network, in which the first 3 layers are separated for positive
and negative signals, and the last 2 layers connects both positive
and negative signals, and outputs the Q-value of a given state and
action.
As we consider our offline test task as a reranking task, we
select MAP [29] and NDCG@40 [9] as the metrics to evaluate
the performance. The difference of ours from traditional Learn-to-
Rank methods is that we rerank both clicked and ordered items
together, and set them by different rewards, rather than only rerank
clicked items as that in Learn-to-Rank problems. For online test,
we leverage the accumulated rewards in the session as the metric.
4.2 Performance Comparison for Offline Test
We compare the proposed framework with the following represen-
tative baseline methods:
•CF: Collaborative filtering[ 3] is a method of making auto-
matic predictions about the interests of a user by collecting
preference information from many users, which is based on
the hypothesis that people often get the best recommenda-
tions from someone with similar tastes to themselves.Recommendations with Negative Feedback via
Pairwise Deep Reinforcement Learning KDD ’18, August 19–23, 2018, London, United Kingdom
0100000200000300000400000500000600000700000012(
b)(a) 
 Average Q-valueT
raining SessionsM
APN DCG@400.00.10.20.3 
   
 CF 
FM 
GRU 
DEERS-p 
DEERS
Figure 5: Overall performance comparison in offline test.
•FM: Factorization Machines[ 22] combine the advantages of
support vector machines with factorization models. Com-
pared with matrix factorization, higher order interactions
can be modeled using the dimensionality parameter.
•GRU : This baseline utilizes the Gated Recurrent Units (GRU)
to predict what user will click/order next based on the click-
ing/ordering histories. To make comparison fair, it also keeps
previous N=10clicked/ordered items as states.
•DEERS-p : We use a Deep Q-network[ 16] with embeddings
of users’ historical clicked/ordered items (state) and a rec-
ommended item (action) as input, and train this baseline
following Eq.(2). Note that the state is also captured by GRU.
The results are shown in Figure 5. We make following observa-
tions:
•Figure 5 (a) illustrates the training process of DEERS. We
can observe that the framework approaches to convergence
when the model are trained by 500,000 sessions. The fluctua-
tion of the curve causes by the parameter replacement from
evaluation DQN to target DQN.
•CF and FM achieve worse performance than GRU, DQN and
DEERS, since CF and FM ignore the temporal sequence of the
users’ browsing history, while GRU can capture the temporal
sequence, and DEERS-p and DEERS are able to continuously
update their strategies during the interactions.
•GRU achieves worse performance than DEERS-p, since we
design GRU to maximize the immediate reward for recom-
mendations, while DEERS-p is designed to achieve the trade-
off between short-term and long-term rewards. This result
suggests that introducing reinforcement learning can im-
prove the performance of recommendations.
•DEERS performs better than DEERS-p because we integrate
both positive and negative items (or feedback) into DEERS,
while DEERS-p is trained only based on positive items. This
result indicates that negative feedback can also influence the
decision making process of users, and integrating them into
the model can lead to accurate recommendations.
Short sessionL ong sesion05101520Accumulated rewards  
 GRU 
DEERS-p 
DEERS-f 
DEERS-t 
DEERS-r 
DEERSFigure 6: Overall performance comparison in online test.
To sum up, we can draw answers to the two questions: (1) the
proposed framework outperforms representative baselines; and (2)
negative feedback can help the recommendation performance.
4.3 Performance Comparison for Online Test
We do online test on the aforementioned simulated online environ-
ment, and compare with DEERS with GRU and several variants of
DEERS. Note that we do not include CFandFMbaselines as offline
test since CF and FM are not applicable to the simulated online
environment.
•GRU : The same GRU as in the above subsection.
•DEERS-p : The same DEERS-p as in the above subsection.
•DEERS-f : This variant is a traditional 5-layer DQN where
all layers are fully connected. Note that the state is also
captured by GRU.
•DEERS-t : In this variant, we remove GRU units and just
concatenate the previous N=10clicked/ordered items as
positive state and previous N=10skipped items as negative
state.
•DEERS-r : This variant is to evaluate the performance of
pairwise regularization term, so we set α=0to eliminate
the pairwise regularization term.
As the test stage is based on the simulator, we can artificially
control the length of recommendation sessions to study the perfor-
mance in short and long sessions. We define short sessions with 100
recommended items, while long sessions with 300 recommended
items. The results are shown in Figure 6. It can be observed:
•DEERS outperforms DEERS-f, which demonstrates that the
new architecture of DQN can indeed improve the recommen-
dation performance.
•An interesting discovery is that DEERS-f achieves even worse
performance than DEERS-p, which is trained only based on
positive feedback. This result indicates that a full connected
DQN cannot detect the differences between positive and neg-
ative items, and simply concatenating positive and negative
feedback as input will reduce the performance of traditional
DQN. Thus redesigning DQN architecture is a necessary.
•In short recommendation sessions, GRU and DEERS-p achieve
comparable performance. In other words, GRU and reinforce-
ment learning models like DEERS-p can both recommend
proper items matching users’ short-term interests.
•In long recommendation sessions, DEERS-p outperforms
GRU significantly, because GRU is designed to maximize theKDD ’18, August 19–23, 2018, London, United Kingdom Xiangyu Zhao et al.
0.010 .10.2050.2100.2152
4 6 8 1 00.2000.2050.2100.215 
 NDCG@40(a)N
α 
positive  items 
negative items(b) 
 NDCG@40
Figure 7: Parameter sensitiveness. (a) αthat controls the
pairwise regularization term. (b) Nthat controls the length
of state.
immediate reward for recommendations, while reinforce-
ment learning models like DEERS-p are designed to achieve
the trade-off between short-term and long-term rewards.
•DEERS outperforms DEERS-t and DEERS-r, which suggests
that introducing GRU to capture users’ sequential preference
and introducing pairwise regularization term can improve
the performance of recommendations.
In summary, appropriately redesigning DQN architecture to
incorporate negative feedback, leveraging GRU to capture users’
dynamic preference and introducing pairwise regularization term
can boost the recommendation performance.
4.4 Parameter Sensitivity Analysis
Our method has two key parameters, i.e., αthat controls the pair-
wise regularization term and Nthat controls the length of state. To
study the impact of these parameters, we investigate how the pro-
posed framework DEERS works with the changes of one parameter,
while fixing other parameters.
Figure 7 (a) shows the parameter sensitivity of αin offline recom-
mendation task. The performance for recommendation achieves the
peak when α=0.1. In other words, the the pairwise regularization
term indeed improves the performance of the model; however, it is
less important than the first term y−Q(s+,s−,a;θ)2in Equation
10.
Figure 7 (b) demonstrates the parameter sensitivity of Nin offline
recommendation task. We find that with the increase of N, the
performance improves, and the performance is more sensitive with
positive items. In other words, user’s decision mainly depends on
the items she/he clicked or ordered, but the skipped items also
influence the decision making process.
5 RELATED WORK
In this section, we briefly review works related to our study. In
general, the related work can be mainly grouped into the following
categories.The first category related to this paper is traditional recommen-
dation techniques. Recommender systems assist users by supplying
a list of items that might interest users. Efforts have been made on
offering meaningful recommendations to users. Collaborative filter-
ing [ 13] is the most successful and the most widely used technique,
which is based on the hypothesis that people often get the best rec-
ommendations from someone with similar tastes to themselves [ 3].
Another common approach is content-based filtering [ 17], which
tries to recommend items with similar properties to those that a
user ordered in the past. Knowledge-based systems [ 1] recommend
items based on specific domain knowledge about how certain item
features meet users needs and preferences and how the item is
useful for the user. Hybrid recommender systems are based on the
combination of the above mentioned two or more types of tech-
niques [ 4]. The other topic closely related to this category is deep
learning based recommender system, which is able to effectively
capture the non-linear and non-trivial user-item relationships, and
enables the codification of more complex abstractions as data repre-
sentations in the higher layers [ 32]. For instance, Nguyen et al. [ 20]
proposed a personalized tag recommender system based on CNN. It
utilizes constitutional and max-pooling layer to get visual features
from patches of images. Wu et al. [ 31] designed a session-based
recommendation model for real-world e-commerce website. It uti-
lizes the basic RNN to predict what user will buy next based on the
click histories. This method helps balance the trade off between
computation costs and prediction accuracy.
The second category is about reinforcement learning for recom-
mendations, which is different with the traditional item recommen-
dations. In this paper, we consider the recommending procedure as
sequential interactions between users and recommender agent; and
leverage reinforcement learning to automatically learn the optimal
recommendation strategies. Indeed, reinforcement learning have
been widely examined in recommendation field. The MDP-Based
CF model can be viewed as approximating a partial observable
MDP (POMDP) by using a finite rather than unbounded window
of past history to define the current state [ 25]. To reduce the high
computational and representational complexity of POMDP, three
strategies have been developed: value function approximation [ 7],
policy based optimization [ 19,21], and stochastic sampling [ 10].
Furthermore, Mahmood et al. [ 15] adopted the reinforcement learn-
ing technique to observe the responses of users in a conversational
recommender, with the aim to maximize a numerical cumulative
reward function modeling the benefit that users get from each
recommendation session. Taghipour et al. [ 27,28] modeled web
page recommendation as a Q-Learning problem and learned to
make recommendations from web usage data as the actions rather
than discovering explicit patterns from the data. The system in-
herits the intrinsic characteristic of reinforcement learning which
is in a constant learning process. Sunehag et al. [ 26] introduced
agents that successfully address sequential decision problems with
high-dimensional combinatorial state and action spaces. Zhao et
al. [33,34] propose a novel page-wise recommendation framework
based on deep reinforcement learning, which can optimize a page of
items with proper display based on real-time feedback from users.Recommendations with Negative Feedback via
Pairwise Deep Reinforcement Learning KDD ’18, August 19–23, 2018, London, United Kingdom
6 CONCLUSION
In this paper, we propose a novel framework DEERS, which models
the recommendation session as a Markov Decision Process and
leverages Reinforcement Learning to automatically learn the op-
timal recommendation strategies. Reinforcement learning based
recommender systems have two advantages: (1) they can contin-
uously update strategies during the interactions, and (2) they are
able to learn a strategy that maximizes the long-term cumulative
reward from users. Different from previous work, we leverage Deep
Q-Network and integrate skipped items (negative feedback) into
reinforcement learning based recommendation strategies. Note that
we design a novel architecture of DQN to capture both positive and
negative feedback simultaneously. We evaluate our framework with
extensive experiments based on data from a real e-commerce site.
The results show that (1) our framework can significantly improve
the recommendation performance; and (2) skipped items (negative
feedback) can assist item recommendation.
There are several interesting research directions. First, in addi-
tion to positional order of items we used in this work, we would like
to investigate more orders like temporal order. Second, we would
like to validate with more agent-user interaction patterns, e.g., stor-
ing items into shopping cart, and investigate how to model them
mathematically for recommendations. Finally, the items skipped
by users may not be caused by users disliking them, but just not
preferring as more as the items clicked/ordered or not viewing
them in details at all. The week/wrong negative feedback may not
improve or even reduce the performance when we consider the
negative feedback. To capture stronger negative feedback, more
information like dwell time can be recorded in users’ behavior log
and used in our framework.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This material is based upon work supported by, or in part by, the
National Science Foundation (NSF) under grant number IIS-1714741
and IIS-1715940.
REFERENCES
[1]Rajendra Akerkar and Priti Sajja. 2010. Knowledge-based systems . Jones & Bartlett
Publishers.
[2] Richard Bellman. 2013. Dynamic programming . Courier Corporation.
[3]John S Breese, David Heckerman, and Carl Kadie. 1998. Empirical analysis of
predictive algorithms for collaborative filtering. In Proceedings of the Fourteenth
conference on Uncertainty in artificial intelligence . Morgan Kaufmann Publishers
Inc., 43–52.
[4]Robin Burke. 2002. Hybrid recommender systems: Survey and experiments. User
modeling and user-adapted interaction 12, 4 (2002), 331–370.
[5]Thomas Degris, Martha White, and Richard S Sutton. 2012. Off-policy actor-critic.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1205.4839 (2012).
[6]Georges E Dupret and Benjamin Piwowarski. 2008. A user browsing model to
predict search engine click data from past observations.. In Proceedings of the
31st annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in
information retrieval . ACM, 331–338.
[7]Milos Hauskrecht. 1997. Incremental methods for computing bounds in partially
observable Markov decision processes. In AAAI/IAAI . 734–739.
[8]Balázs Hidasi, Alexandros Karatzoglou, Linas Baltrunas, and Domonkos Tikk.
2015. Session-based recommendations with recurrent neural networks. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1511.06939 (2015).
[9] Kalervo Järvelin and Jaana Kekäläinen. 2002. Cumulated gain-based evaluation
of IR techniques. ACM Transactions on Information Systems (TOIS) 20, 4 (2002),
422–446.
[10] Michael Kearns, Yishay Mansour, and Andrew Y Ng. 2002. A sparse sampling
algorithm for near-optimal planning in large Markov decision processes. Machine
learning 49, 2 (2002), 193–208.[11] Omer Levy and Yoav Goldberg. 2014. Neural word embedding as implicit matrix
factorization. In Advances in neural information processing systems . 2177–2185.
[12] Long-Ji Lin. 1993. Reinforcement learning for robots using neural networks . Tech-
nical Report. Carnegie-Mellon Univ Pittsburgh PA School of Computer Science.
[13] Greg Linden, Brent Smith, and Jeremy York. 2003. Amazon. com recommenda-
tions: Item-to-item collaborative filtering. IEEE Internet computing 7, 1 (2003),
76–80.
[14] Tariq Mahmood and Francesco Ricci. 2007. Learning and adaptivity in interactive
recommender systems. In Proceedings of the ninth international conference on
Electronic commerce . ACM, 75–84.
[15] Tariq Mahmood and Francesco Ricci. 2009. Improving recommender systems
with adaptive conversational strategies. In Proceedings of the 20th ACM conference
on Hypertext and hypermedia . ACM, 73–82.
[16] Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Alex Graves, Ioannis
Antonoglou, Daan Wierstra, and Martin Riedmiller. 2013. Playing atari with deep
reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.5602 (2013).
[17] Raymond J Mooney and Loriene Roy. 2000. Content-based book recommending
using learning for text categorization. In Proceedings of the fifth ACM conference
on Digital libraries . ACM, 195–204.
[18] Andrew W Moore and Christopher G Atkeson. 1993. Prioritized sweeping:
Reinforcement learning with less data and less time. Machine learning 13, 1
(1993), 103–130.
[19] Andrew Y Ng and Michael Jordan. 2000. PEGASUS: A policy search method for
large MDPs and POMDPs. In Proceedings of the Sixteenth conference on Uncertainty
in artificial intelligence . Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc., 406–415.
[20] Hanh TH Nguyen, Martin Wistuba, Josif Grabocka, Lucas Rego Drumond, and
Lars Schmidt-Thieme. 2017. Personalized Deep Learning for Tag Recommenda-
tion. In Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining . Springer,
186–197.
[21] Pascal Poupart and Craig Boutilier. 2005. VDCBPI: an approximate scalable algo-
rithm for large POMDPs. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems .
1081–1088.
[22] Steffen Rendle. 2010. Factorization machines. In Data Mining (ICDM), 2010 IEEE
10th International Conference on . IEEE, 995–1000.
[23] Paul Resnick and Hal R Varian. 1997. Recommender systems. Commun. ACM 40,
3 (1997), 56–58.
[24] Francesco Ricci, Lior Rokach, and Bracha Shapira. 2011. Introduction to rec-
ommender systems handbook. In Recommender systems handbook . Springer,
1–35.
[25] Guy Shani, David Heckerman, and Ronen I Brafman. 2005. An MDP-based
recommender system. Journal of Machine Learning Research 6, Sep (2005), 1265–
1295.
[26] Peter Sunehag, Richard Evans, Gabriel Dulac-Arnold, Yori Zwols, Daniel Visentin,
and Ben Coppin. 2015. Deep Reinforcement Learning with Attention for Slate
Markov Decision Processes with High-Dimensional States and Actions. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1512.01124 (2015).
[27] Nima Taghipour and Ahmad Kardan. 2008. A hybrid web recommender system
based on q-learning. In Proceedings of the 2008 ACM symposium on Applied
computing . ACM, 1164–1168.
[28] Nima Taghipour, Ahmad Kardan, and Saeed Shiry Ghidary. 2007. Usage-based
web recommendations: a reinforcement learning approach. In Proceedings of the
2007 ACM conference on Recommender systems . ACM, 113–120.
[29] Andrew Turpin and Falk Scholer. 2006. User performance versus precision
measures for simple search tasks. In Proceedings of the 29th annual international
ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval . ACM,
11–18.
[30] Qingyun Wu, Hongning Wang, Liangjie Hong, and Yue Shi. 2017. Returning is
Believing: Optimizing Long-term User Engagement in Recommender Systems.
InProceedings of the 2017 ACM on Conference on Information and Knowledge
Management . ACM, 1927–1936.
[31] Sai Wu, Weichao Ren, Chengchao Yu, Gang Chen, Dongxiang Zhang, and Jingbo
Zhu. 2016. Personal recommendation using deep recurrent neural networks in
NetEase. In Data Engineering (ICDE), 2016 IEEE 32nd International Conference on .
IEEE, 1218–1229.
[32] Shuai Zhang, Lina Yao, and Aixin Sun. 2017. Deep Learning based Recommender
System: A Survey and New Perspectives. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.07435 (2017).
[33] Xiangyu Zhao, Long Xia, Liang Zhang, Zhuoye Ding, Dawei Yin, and Jiliang Tang.
2018. Deep Reinforcement Learning for Page-wise Recommendations. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1805.02343 (2018).
[34] Xiangyu Zhao, Liang Zhang, Zhuoye Ding, Dawei Yin, Yihong Zhao, and Jiliang
Tang. 2017. Deep Reinforcement Learning for List-wise Recommendations. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1801.00209 (2017).