Top-𝐾Off-Policy Correction
for a REINFORCE Recommender System
Minmin Chen∗, Alex Beutel∗, Paul Covington∗, Sagar Jain, Francois Belletti, Ed H. Chi
Google, Inc.
Mountain View, CA
minminc,alexbeutel,pcovington,sagarj,belletti,edchi@google.com
ABSTRACT
Industrial recommender systems deal with extremely large action
spaces – many millions of items to recommend. Moreover, they
need to serve billions of users, who are unique at any point in
time, making a complex user state space. Luckily, huge quantities
of logged implicit feedback ( e.g., user clicks, dwell time) are avail-
able for learning. Learning from the logged feedback is however
subject to biases caused by only observing feedback on recommen-
dations selected by the previous versions of the recommender. In
this work, we present a general recipe of addressing such biases in
a production top- 𝐾recommender system at YouTube, built with a
policy-gradient-based algorithm, i.e. REINFORCE [ 48]. The contri-
butions of the paper are: (1) scaling REINFORCE to a production
recommender system with an action space on the orders of millions;
(2) applying off-policy correction to address data biases in learning
from logged feedback collected from multiple behavior policies; (3)
proposing a novel top- 𝐾off-policy correction to account for our
policy recommending multiple items at a time; (4) showcasing the
value of exploration. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approaches
through a series of simulations and multiple live experiments on
YouTube.
ACM Reference Format:
Minmin Chen, Alex Beutel, Paul Covington, Sagar Jain, Francois Belletti, Ed
H. Chi. 2019. Top-K Off-Policy Correction for a REINFORCE Recommender
System. In The Twelfth ACM International Conference on Web Search and
Data Mining (WSDM’ 19), February 11-15, 2019, Melbourne, VIC, Australia .
ACM, New York, NY, USA, 9 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3289600.3290999
1 INTRODUCTION
Recommender systems are relied on, throughout industry, to help
users sort through huge corpuses of content and discover the small
fraction of content they would be interested in. This problem is
challenging because of the huge number of items that could be rec-
ommended. Furthermore, surfacing the right item to the right user
at the right time requires the recommender system to constantly
adapt to users’ shifting interest (state) based on their historical
∗Authors contributed equally.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored.
For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).
WSDM ’19, February 11–15, 2019, Melbourne, VIC, Australia
©2019 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-5940-5/19/02.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3289600.3290999
interaction with the system [ 6]. Unfortunately, we observe rela-
tively little data for such a large state and action space, with most
users only having been exposed to a small fraction of items and
providing explicit feedback to an even smaller fraction. That is,
recommender systems receive extremely sparse data for training
in general, e.g., the Netflix Prize dataset was only 0.1% dense [ 5].
As a result, a good amount of research in recommender systems
explores different mechanisms for treating this extreme sparsity.
Learning from implicit user feedback, such as clicks and dwell-time,
as well as filling in unobserved interactions, has been an important
step in improving recommenders [ 19] but the problem remains an
open one.
In a mostly separate line of research, reinforcement learning (RL)
has recently achieved impressive advances in games [ 38,46] as well
as robotics [ 22,25]. RL in general focuses on building agents that
take actions in an environment so as to maximize some notion of
long term reward. Here we explore framing recommendation as
building RL agents to maximize each user’s long term satisfaction
with the system. This offers us new perspectives on recommenda-
tion problems as well as opportunities to build on top of the recent
RL advancement. However, there are significant challenges to put
this perspective into practice.
As introduced above, recommender systems deal with large state
and action spaces, and this is particularly exacerbated in industrial
settings. The set of items available to recommend is non-stationary
and new items are brought into the system constantly, resulting in
an ever-growing action space with new items having even sparser
feedback. Further, user preferences over these items are shifting
all the time, resulting in continuously-evolving user states. Being
able to reason through these large number of actions in such a
complex environment poses unique challenges in applying existing
RL algorithms. Here we share our experience adapting the REIN-
FORCE algorithm [ 48] to a neural candidate generator (a top- 𝐾
recommender system) with extremely large action and state spaces.
In addition to the massive action and state spaces, RL for recom-
mendation is distinct in its limited availability of data. Classic RL
applications have overcome data inefficiencies by collecting large
quantities of training data with self-play and simulation [ 38]. In
contrast, the complex dynamics of the recommender system has
made simulation for generating realistic recommendation data non-
viable. As a result, we cannot easily probe for reward in previously
unexplored areas of the state and action space, since observing
reward requires giving a real recommendation to a real user. In-
stead, the model relies mostly on data made available from the
previous recommendation models (policies), most of which we can-
not control or can no longer control. To most effectively utilize
logged-feedback from other policies, we take an off-policy learningarXiv:1812.02353v3  [cs.LG]  15 Dec 2021approach, in which we simultaneously learn a model of the previ-
ous policies and incorporate it in correcting the data biases when
training our new policy. We also experimentally demonstrate the
value in exploratory data.
Finally, most of the research in RL focuses on producing a pol-
icy that chooses a single item. Real-world recommenders, on the
other hand, typically offer the user multiple recommendations at
a time [ 44]. Therefore, we define a novel top- 𝐾off-policy correc-
tion for our top- 𝐾recommender system. We find that while the
standard off-policy correction results in a policy that is optimal for
top-1 recommendation, this top- 𝐾off-policy correction leads to
significant better top- 𝐾recommendations in both simulations and
live experiments. Together, we offer the following contributions:
•REINFORCE Recommender: We scale a REINFORCE policy-
gradient-based approach to learn a neural recommendation
policy in a extremely large action space.
•Off-Policy Candidate Generation: We apply off-policy
correction to learn from logged feedback, collected from an
ensemble of prior model policies. We incorporate a learned
neural model of the behavior policies to correct data biases.
•Top-𝐾Off-Policy Correction: We offer a novel top- 𝐾off-
policy correction to account for the fact that our recom-
mender outputs multiple items at a time.
•Benefits in Live Experiments: We demonstrate in live ex-
periments, which was rarely done in existing RL literature,
the value of these approaches to improve user long term
satisfaction.
We find this combination of approaches valuable for increasing user
enjoyment and believe it frames many of the practical challenges
going forward for using RL in recommendations.
2 RELATED WORK
Reinforcement Learning: Value-based approaches such as Q-learning,
and policy-based ones such as policy gradients constitute classi-
cal approaches to solve RL problems [ 40]. A general comparison
of modern RL approaches can be found in [ 29] with a focus on
asynchronous learning which is key to scaling up to large prob-
lems. Although value-based methods present many advantages
such as seamless off-policy learning, they are known to be prone
to instability with function approximation [ 41]. Often, extensive
hyper-parameter tuning is required to achieve stable behavior for
these approaches. Despite the practical success of many value-based
approaches such as deep Q-learning [ 30], policy convergence of
these algorithms are not well-studied. Policy-based approaches on
the other hand, remain rather stable w.r.t. function approximations
given a sufficiently small learning rate. We therefore choose to rely
on a policy-gradient-based approach, in particular REINFORCE
[48], and to adapt this on-policy method to provide reliable policy
gradient estimates when training off-policy.
Neural Recommenders: Another line of work that is closely re-
lated to ours is the growing body of literature on applying deep
neural networks to recommender systems [ 11,16,37], in particular
using recurrent neural networks to incorporate temporal informa-
tion and historical events for recommendation [ 6,17,20,45,49].
We employed similar network architectures to model the evolving
of user states through interactions with the recommender system.As neural architecture design is not the main focus of our work,
we refer interested readers to these prior works for more detailed
discussions.
Bandit Problems in recommender systems: On-line learning meth-
ods are also popular to quickly adapt recommendation systems
as new user feedback becomes available. Bandit algorithms such
as Upper Confidence Bound (UCB) [ 3] trade off exploration and
exploitation in an analytically tractable way that provides strong
guarantees on the regret. Different algorithms such as Thomson
sampling [ 9], have been successfully applied to news recommenda-
tions and display advertising. Contextual bandits offer a context-
aware refinement of the basic on-line learning approaches and tailor
the recommendation toward user interests [ 27]. Agarwal et al . [2]
aimed to make contextual bandits tractable and easy to implement.
Hybrid methods that rely on matrix factorization and bandits have
also been developed to solve cold-start problems in recommender
systems [28].
Propensity Scoring and Reinforcement Learning in Recommender
Systems: The problem of learning off-policy [ 31,33,34] is perva-
sive in RL and affects policy gradient generally. As a policy evolves
so does the distribution under which gradient expectations are
computed. Standard approaches in robotics [ 1,36] circumvent this
issue by constraining policy updates so that they do not change
the policy too substantially before new data is collected under an
updated policy, which in return provides monotonic improvement
guarantees of the RL objective. Such proximal methods are unfor-
tunately not applicable in the recommendations setting where item
catalogues and user behaviors change rapidly, and therefore sub-
stantial policy changes are required. Meanwhile feedback is slow
to collect at scale w.r.t. the large state and action space. As a matter
of fact, offline evaluation of a given policy is already a challenge
in the recommender system setting. Multiple off-policy estimators
leveraging inverse-propensity scores, capped inverse-propensity
scores and various variance control measures have been developed
[13,42,43,47]. Off-policy evaluation corrects for a similar data skew
as off-policy RL and similar methods are applied on both problems.
Inverse propensity scoring has also been employed to improve a
serving policy at scale in [ 39]. Joachims et al . [21] learns a model of
logged feedback for an unbiased ranking model; we take a similar
perspective but use a DNN to model the logged behavior policy
required for the off-policy learning. More recently an off-policy
approach has been adapted to the more complex problem of slate
recommendation [ 44] where a pseudo-inverse estimator assuming
a structural prior on the slate and reward is applied in conjunction
with inverse propensity scoring.
3 REINFORCE RECOMMENDER
We begin with describing the setup of our recommender system,
and our approach to RL-based recommendation.
For each user, we consider a sequence of user historical interac-
tions with the system, recording the actions taken by the recom-
mender, i.e.,videos recommended, as well as user feedback, such as
clicks and watch time. Given such a sequence, we predict the next
action to take, i.e., videos to recommend, so that user satisfaction
metrics, e.g., indicated by clicks or watch time, improve.We translate this setup into a Markov Decision Process (MDP)
(S,A,P,𝑅,𝜌 0,𝛾)where
•S: a continuous state space describing the user states;
•A: a discrete action space, containing items available for
recommendation;
•P:S×A×S→ Ris the state transition probability;
•𝑅:S×A→ Ris the reward function, where 𝑟(𝑠,𝑎)is the
immediate reward obtained by performing action 𝑎at user
state𝑠;
•𝜌0is the initial state distribution;
•𝛾is the discount factor for future rewards.
We seek a policy 𝜋(𝑎|𝑠)that casts a distribution over the item to
recommend 𝑎∈A conditional to the user state 𝑠∈S, so as to maxi-
mize the expected cumulative reward obtained by the recommender
system,
max𝜋J(𝜋)=E𝜏∼𝜋[𝑅(𝜏)],where𝑅(𝜏)=|𝜏|∑︁
𝑡=0𝑟(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)
Here the expectation is taken over the trajectories 𝜏=(𝑠0,𝑎0,𝑠1,···)
obtained by acting according to the policy: 𝑠0∼𝜌0,𝑎𝑡∼𝜋(·|𝑠𝑡),𝑠𝑡+1∼
P(·|𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡). In other words,
J(𝜋)=E𝑠0∼𝜌0,𝑎𝑡∼𝜋(·|𝑠𝑡),𝑠𝑡+1∼P(·|𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)|𝜏|∑︁
𝑡=0𝑟(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)
=E𝑠𝑡∼𝑑𝜋
𝑡(·),𝑎𝑡∼𝜋(·|𝑠𝑡)|𝜏|∑︁
𝑡′=𝑡𝑟(𝑠𝑡′,𝑎𝑡′)(1)
Here𝑑𝜋
𝑡(·)denotes the (discounted) state visitation frequency at
time𝑡under the policy 𝜋. Different families of methods are available
to solve such an RL problems: Q-learning [ 38], Policy Gradient
[26,36,48] and black box optimization [ 15]. Here we focus on a
policy-gradient-based approach, i.e.,REINFORCE [48].
We assume a function form of the policy 𝜋𝜃, parametrised by
𝜃∈R𝑑. The gradient of the expected cumulative reward with
respect to the policy parameters can be derived analytically thanks
to the “log-trick”, yielding the following REINFORCE gradient
∇𝜃J(𝜋𝜃)=E𝑠𝑡∼𝑑𝜋
𝑡(·),𝑎𝑡∼𝜋(·|𝑠𝑡)©­
«|𝜏|∑︁
𝑡′=𝑡𝑟(𝑠𝑡′,𝑎𝑡′)ª®
¬∇𝜃log𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)
=∑︁
𝑠𝑡∼𝑑𝜋
𝑡(·),𝑎𝑡∼𝜋(·|𝑠𝑡)𝑅𝑡(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)∇𝜃log𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡) (2)
Here𝑅𝑡(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)=Í|𝜏|
𝑡′=𝑡𝛾𝑡′−𝑡𝑟(𝑠𝑡′,𝑎𝑡′)is the discounted future re-
ward for action at time 𝑡. The discounting factor 𝛾is applied to
reduce variance in the gradient estimate. In on-line RL, where the
policy gradient is computed on trajectories generated by the policy
under consideration, the monte carlo estimate of the policy gradient
is unbiased.
4 OFF-POLICY CORRECTION
Unlike classical reinforcement learning, our learner does not have
real-time interactive control of the recommender due to learning
and infrastructure constraints. In other words, we cannot perform
online updates to the policy and generate trajectories according tothe updated policy immediately. Instead we receive logged feedback
of actions chosen by a historical policy (or a mixture of policies),
which could have a different distribution over the action space than
the policy we are updating.
We focus on addressing the data biases that arise when applying
policy gradient methods under this setting. In particular, the fact
that we collect data with a periodicity of several hours and compute
many policy parameter updates before deploying a new version
of the policy in production implies that the set of trajectories we
employ to estimate the policy gradient is generated by a different
policy. Moreover, we learn from batched feedback collected by other
recommenders as well, which follow drastically different policies.
A naive policy gradient estimator is no longer unbiased as the
gradient in Equation (2)requires sampling trajectories from the
updated policy 𝜋𝜃while the trajectories we collected were drawn
from a combination of historical policies 𝛽.
We address the distribution mismatch with importance weight-
ing [ 31,33,34]. Consider a trajectory 𝜏=(𝑠0,𝑎0,𝑠1,···) sampled
according to a behavior policy 𝛽, the off-policy-corrected gradient
estimator is then:
∇𝜃J(𝜋𝜃)=∑︁
𝑠𝑡∼𝑑𝛽
𝑡(·),𝑎𝑡∼𝛽(·|𝑠𝑡)𝜔(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)𝑅𝑡∇𝜃log𝜋𝜃(𝜏)(3)
where
𝜔(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)=𝑑𝜋
𝑡(𝑠𝑡)
𝑑𝛽
𝑡(𝑠𝑡)×𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)
𝛽(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)×|𝜏|Ö
𝑡′=𝑡+1𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑡′|𝑠𝑡′)
𝛽𝜃(𝑎𝑡′|𝑠𝑡′)
is the importance weight. This correction produces an unbiased
estimator whenever the trajectories are collected with actions sam-
pled according to 𝛽. However, the variance of the estimator can be
huge when the difference in 𝜋𝜃and the behavior policy 𝛽results
in very low or high values of the importance weights.
To reduce the variance of each gradient term, we take the first-
order approximation and ignore the state visitation differences
under the two policies as the importance weights of future trajecto-
ries, which yields a slightly biased estimator of the policy gradient
with lower variance:
∇𝜃J(𝜋𝜃)≈∑︁
𝑠𝑡∼𝑑𝛽
𝑡(·),𝑎𝑡∼𝛽(·|𝑠𝑡)𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)
𝛽(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)𝑅𝑡∇𝜃log𝜋𝜃(𝜏) (4)
Achiam et al . [1] prove that the impact of this first-order approx-
imation on the total reward of the learned policy is bounded in
magnitude by 𝑂 𝐸𝑠∼𝑑𝛽[𝐷𝑇𝑉(𝜋|𝛽)[𝑠]]where𝐷𝑇𝑉is the total
variation between 𝜋(·|𝑠)and𝛽(·|𝑠)and𝑑𝛽is the discounted future
state distribution under 𝛽. This estimator trades off the variance of
the exact off-policy correction while still correcting for the large
bias of a non-corrected policy gradient, which is better suited for
on-policy learning.
4.1 Parametrising the policy 𝜋𝜃
We model our belief on the user state at each time 𝑡, which capture
both evolving user interests using a 𝑛-dimensional vector, that is,
s𝑡∈R𝑛. The action taken at each time 𝑡along the trajectory is
embedded using an 𝑚-dimensional vector u𝑎𝑡∈R𝑚. We model the
state transition P:S×A×S with a recurrent neural network [ 6,49]:
s𝑡+1=𝑓(s𝑡,u𝑎𝑡).We experimented with a variety of popular RNN cells such as
Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) [ 18] and Gated Recurrent Units
(GRU) [ 10], and ended up using a simplified cell called Chaos Free
RNN (CFN) [ 24] due to its stability and computational efficiency.
The state is updated recursively as
s𝑡+1=z𝑡⊙tanh(s𝑡)+i𝑡⊙tanh(W𝑎u𝑎𝑡) (5)
z𝑡=𝜎(U𝑧s𝑡+W𝑧u𝑎𝑡+b𝑧)
i𝑡=𝜎(U𝑖s𝑡+W𝑖u𝑎𝑡+b𝑖)
where z𝑡,i𝑡∈R𝑛are the update and input gate respectively.
Conditioning on a user state s, the policy𝜋𝜃(𝑎|s)is then modeled
with a simple softmax,
𝜋𝜃(𝑎|s)=𝑒𝑥𝑝(s⊤v𝑎/𝑇)Í
𝑎′∈A𝑒𝑥𝑝(s⊤v𝑎′/𝑇)(6)
where v𝑎∈R𝑛is another embedding for each action 𝑎in the action
spaceAand𝑇is a temperature that is normally set to 1. Using a
higher value in 𝑇produces a smoother policy over the action space.
The normalization term in the softmax requires going over all the
possible actions, which is in the order of millions in our setting.
To speed up the computation, we perform sampled softmax [ 4]
during training. At serving time, we used an efficient nearest neigh-
bor search algorithm to retrieve top actions and approximate the
softmax probability using these actions only, as detailed in section 5.
In summary, the parameter 𝜃of the policy 𝜋𝜃contains the two
action embeddings U∈R𝑚×|A|andV∈R𝑛×|A|as well as the
weight matrices U𝑧,U𝑖∈R𝑛×𝑛,W𝑢,W𝑖,W𝑎∈R𝑛×𝑚and biases
b𝑢,b𝑖∈R𝑛in the RNN cell. Figure 1 shows a diagram describing
the neural architecture of the main policy 𝜋𝜃. Given an observed
trajectory𝜏=(𝑠0,𝑎0,𝑠1,···) sampled from a behavior policy 𝛽, the
new policy first generates a model of the user state s𝑡+1by starting
with an initial state s0∼𝜌01and iterating through the recurrent
cell as in Equation (5)2. Given the user state s𝑡+1the policy head
casts a distribution on the action space through a softmax as in
Equation (6). With𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑡+1|s𝑡+1), we can then produce a policy
gradient as in Equation (4) to update the policy.
4.2 Estimating the behavior policy 𝛽
One difficulty in coming up with the off-policy corrected estimator
in Equation (4)is to get the behavior policy 𝛽. Ideally, for each
logged feedback of a chosen action we received, we would like
to also log the probability of the behavior policy choosing that
action. Directly logging the behavior policy is however not feasible
in our case as (1) there are multiple agents in our system, many
of which we do not have control over, and (2) some agents have a
deterministic policy, and setting 𝛽to 0 or 1 is not the most effective
way to utilize these logged feedback.
Instead we take the approach first introduced in [ 39], and esti-
mate the behavior policy 𝛽, which in our case is a mixture of the poli-
cies of the multiple agents in the system, using the logged actions.
Given a set of logged feedback D={(s𝑖,𝑎𝑖),𝑖=1,···,𝑁}, Strehl
et al. [39] estimates ˆ𝛽(𝑎)independent of user state by aggregate
action frequency throughout the corpus. In contrast, we adopt
1In our experiment, we used a fixed initial state distribution, where s0=0∈R𝑛
2We take into account of the context [ 6] of the action, such as page, device and time
information, as input to the RNN cell besides the action embedding itself.
Recurrent CellItem embeddingContextEvent 1, 2,…, tSoftmaxEvent t+1Softmax
Block gradientLabel context  User state   
RELUFigure 1: A diagram shows the parametrisation of the policy
𝜋𝜃as well as the behavior policy 𝛽𝜃′.
a context-dependent neural estimator. For each state-action pair
(𝑠,𝑎)collected, we estimate the probability ˆ𝛽𝜃′(𝑎|𝑠)that the mixture
of behavior policies choosing that action using another softmax,
parametrised by 𝜃′. As shown in Figure 1, we re-use the user state
𝑠generated from the RNN model from the main policy, and model
the mixed behavior policy with another softmax layer. To prevent
the behavior head from intefering with the user state of the main
policy, we block its gradient from flowing back into the RNN. We
also experimented with separating the 𝜋𝜃and𝛽𝜃′estimators, which
incurs computational overhead for computing another state repre-
sentation but does not results in any metric improvement in offline
and live experiments.
Despite a substantial sharing of parameters between the two
policy heads 𝜋𝜃and𝛽𝜃′, there are two noticeable difference between
them: (1) While the main policy 𝜋𝜃is effectively trained using a
weighted softmax to take into account of long term reward, the
behavior policy head 𝛽𝜃′is trained using only the state-action pairs;
(2) While the main policy head 𝜋𝜃is trained using only items on
the trajectory with non-zero reward3, the behavior policy 𝛽𝜃′is
trained using all of the items on the trajectory to avoid introducing
bias in the𝛽estimate.
In [39], it is argued that that a behavior policy that is determin-
istically choosing an action 𝑎given state𝑠at time𝑡1and action𝑏
at time𝑡2can be treated as randomizing between action 𝑎and𝑏
over the timespan of the logging. Here we could argue the same
point, which explains why the behavior policy could be other than
0 or 1 given a deterministic policy. In addition, since we have multi-
ple policies acting simultaneously, if one policy is determinstically
choosing action 𝑎given user state 𝑠, and another one is determin-
stically choosing action 𝑏, then estimating ˆ𝛽𝜃′in such a way would
approximate the expected frequency of action 𝑎being chosen under
the mixture of these behavior policies given user state 𝑠.
31. Actions with zero-reward will not contribute to the gradient update in 𝜋𝜃; 2. We
ignore them in the user state update as users are unlikely to notice them and as a result,
we assume the user state are not influenced by these actions; 3. It saves computational
cost.4.3 Top-𝐾Off-Policy Correction
Another challenge in our setting is that our system recommends
a page of𝑘items to users at a time. As users are going to browse
through (the full or partial set of) our recommendations and po-
tentially interact with more than one item, we need to pick a set
of relevant items instead of a single one. In other words, we seek a
policy Π𝜃(𝐴|𝑠), here each action 𝐴is to select a set of 𝑘items, to
maximize the expected cumulative reward,
max
𝜃J(Π𝜃)=E𝑠𝑡∼𝑑Π
𝑡(·),𝐴𝑡∼Π𝜃(·|𝑠𝑡)[𝑅𝑡(𝑠𝑡,𝐴𝑡)].
Here𝑅𝑡(𝑠𝑡,𝐴𝑡)denotes the cumulative return of the set 𝐴𝑡at state
𝑠𝑡. Unfortunately, the action space grows exponentially under this
set recommendation formulation [ 44,50], which is prohibitively
large given the number of items we choose from are in the orders
of millions.
To make the problem tractable, we assume that a user will inter-
act with at most one item from the returned set 𝐴. In other words,
there will be at most one item with non-zero cumulative reward
among𝐴. We further assume that the expected return of an item is
independent of other items chosen in the set 𝐴4. With these two
assumptions, we can reduce the set problem to
J(Π𝜃)=E𝑠𝑡∼𝑑Π
𝑡(·),𝑎𝑡∈𝐴𝑡∼Π𝜃(·|𝑠𝑡)[𝑅𝑡(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)].
Here𝑅𝑡(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)is the cumulative return of the item 𝑎𝑡the user
interacted with, and 𝑎𝑡∈𝐴𝑡∼Π𝜃(·|𝑠𝑡)indicates that 𝑎𝑡was
chosen by the set policy. Furthermore, we constrain ourselves to
generate the set action 𝐴by independently sampling each item
𝑎according to the softmax policy 𝜋𝜃described in Equation (6)
and then de-duplicate. As a result, the probability of an item 𝑎
appearing in the final non-repetitive set 𝐴is simply𝛼𝜃(𝑎|𝑠)=
1−(1−𝜋𝜃(𝑎|𝑠))𝐾, where𝐾is the number of times we sample.5.
We can then adapt the REINFORCE algorithm to the set rec-
ommendation setting by simply modifying the gradient update in
Equation (2) to
∑︁
𝑠𝑡∼𝑑𝜋
𝑡(·),𝑎𝑡∼𝛼𝜃(·|𝑠𝑡)𝑅𝑡(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)∇𝜃log𝛼𝜃(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)
Accordingly, we can update the off-policy corrected gradient
in Equation (4)by replacing 𝜋𝜃with𝛼𝜃, resulting in the top- 𝐾
off-policy correction factor:
∑︁
𝑠𝑡∼𝑑𝜋
𝑡(·),𝑎𝑡∼𝛽(·|𝑠𝑡)𝛼𝜃(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)
𝛽(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)𝑅𝑡(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)∇𝜃log𝛼𝜃(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)
(7)
=∑︁
𝑠𝑡∼𝑑𝜋
𝑡(·),𝑎𝑡∼𝛽(·|𝑠𝑡)𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)
𝛽(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)𝜕𝛼(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)
𝜕𝜋(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)𝑅𝑡(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)∇𝜃log𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)
.
Comparing Equation (7)with Equation (4), the top-𝐾policy adds
an additional multiplier of
𝜆𝐾(𝑠𝑡,𝑎𝑡)=𝜕𝛼(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)
𝜕𝜋(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡)=𝐾(1−𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑡|𝑠𝑡))𝐾−1(8)
to the original off-policy correction factor of𝜋(𝑎|𝑠)
𝛽(𝑎|𝑠).
Now let us take a closer look at this additional multiplier:
4This assumption holds if the downstream systems and the user inspect each item on
a page independently.
5At a result of the sampling with replacement and de-duplicate, the size of the final
set𝐴can vary.•As𝜋𝜃(𝑎|𝑠)→ 0,𝜆𝐾(𝑠,𝑎)→𝐾. The top-𝐾off-policy correc-
tion increases the policy update by a factor of 𝐾comparing
to the standard off-policy correction;
•As𝜋𝜃(𝑎|𝑠)→ 1,𝜆𝐾(𝑠,𝑎)→ 0. This multiplier zeros out the
policy update.
•As𝐾increases, this multiplier reduces the gradient to zero
faster as𝜋𝜃(𝑎|𝑠)reaches a reasonable range.
In summary, when the desirable item has a small mass in the softmax
policy𝜋𝜃(·|𝑠), the top-𝐾correction more aggressively pushes up
its likelihood than the standard correction. Once the softmax policy
𝜋𝜃(·|𝑠)casts a reasonable mass on the desirable item (to ensure it
will be likely to appear in the top- 𝐾), the correction then zeros out
the gradient and no longer tries to push up its likelihood. This in
return allows other items of interest to take up some mass in the
softmax policy. As we are going to demonstrate in the simulation
as well as live experiment, while the standard off-policy correction
converges to a policy that is optimal when choosing a single item,
the top-𝐾correction leads to better top- 𝐾recommendations.
4.4 Variance Reduction Techniques
As detailed at the beginning of this section, we take a first-order
approximation to reduce variance in the gradient estimate. Nonethe-
less, the gradient can still suffer from large variance due to large im-
portance weight of 𝜔(𝑠,𝑎)=𝜋(𝑎|𝑠)
𝛽(𝑎|𝑠)as shown in Equation (4), Simi-
larly for top- 𝐾off-policy correction. Large importance weight could
result from (1) large deviation of the new policy 𝜋(·|𝑠)from the
behavior policy, in particular, the new policy explores regions that
are less explored by the behavior policy. That is, 𝜋(𝑎|𝑠)≫𝛽(𝑎|𝑠)
and (2) large variance in the 𝛽estimate.
We tested several techniques proposed in counterfactual learning
and RL literature to control variance in the gradient estimate. Most
of these techniques reduce variance at the cost of introducing some
bias in the gradient estimate.
Weight Capping. The first approach we take is to simply cap
the weight [8] as
¯𝜔𝑐(𝑠,𝑎)=min𝜋(𝑎|𝑠)
𝛽(𝑎|𝑠),𝑐
. (9)
Smaller value of 𝑐reduces variance in the gradient estimate, but
introduces larger bias.
Normalized Importance Sampling (NIS). Second technique
we employed is to introduce a ratio control variate, where we use
classical weight normalization [32] defined by:
¯𝜔𝑛(𝑠,𝑎)=𝜔(𝑠,𝑎)Í
(𝑠′,𝑎′)∼𝛽𝜔(𝑠′,𝑎′).
AsE𝛽[𝜔(𝑠,𝑎)]=1, the normalizing constant is equal to 𝑛, the batch
size, in expectation. As 𝑛increases, the effect of NIS is equivalent
to tuning down the learning rate.
Trusted Region Policy Optimization (TRPO). TRPO [ 36]
prevents the new policy 𝜋from deviating from the behavior policy
by adding a regularization that penalizes the KL divergence of these
two policies. It achieves similar effect as the weight capping.
5 EXPLORATION
As should be clear by this point, the distribution of training data
is important for learning a good policy. Exploration policies toFigure 2: learned policy 𝜋𝜃when behavior policy 𝛽is skewed
to favor the actions with least reward, i.e.,𝛽(𝑎𝑖)=11−𝑖
55,∀𝑖=
1,···,10. (left): without off-policy correction; (right): with
off-policy correction.
inquire about actions rarely taken by the existing system have
been extensively studied. In practice, brute-force exploration, such
as𝜖-greedy, is not viable in a production system like YouTube
where this could, and mostly likely would, result in inappropriate
recommendations and a bad user experience. For example, Schnabel
et al. [35] studied the cost of exploration.
Instead we employ Boltzmann exploration [ 12] to get the benefit
of exploratory data without negatively impacting user experience.
We consider using a stochastic policy where recommendations are
sampled from 𝜋𝜃rather than taking the 𝐾items with the highest
probability. This has the challenge of being computationally in-
efficient because we need to calculate the full softmax, which is
prohibitively expensive considering our action space. Rather, we
make use of efficient approximate nearest neighbor-based systems
to look up the top 𝑀items in the softmax [ 14]. We then feed the
logits of these 𝑀items into a smaller softmax to normalize the
probabilities and sample from this distribution. By setting 𝑀≫𝐾
we can still retrieve most of the probability mass, limit the risk of
bad recommendations, and enable computationally efficient sam-
pling. In practice, we further balance exploration and exploitation
by returning the top 𝐾′most probable items and sample 𝐾−𝐾′
items from the remaining 𝑀−𝐾′items.
6 EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
We showcase the effectiveness of these approaches for addressing
data biases in a series of simulated experiments and live experiments
in an industrial-scale recommender system.
6.1 Simulation
We start with designing simulation experiments to shed light on
the off-policy correction ideas under more controlled settings. To
simplify our simulation, we assume the problem is stateless, in
other words, the reward 𝑅is independent of user states, and the
action does not alter the user states either. As a result, each action
on a trajectory can be independently chosen.
6.1.1 Off-policy correction. In the first simulation, we assume there
are 10 items, that is A={𝑎𝑖,𝑖=1,···,10}. The reward of each
one is equal to its index, that is, 𝑟(𝑎𝑖)=𝑖. When we are choosing
a single item, the optimal policy under this setting is to always
choose the 10𝑡ℎitem as it gives the most reward, that is,
𝜋∗(𝑎𝑖)=I(𝑖=10).We parameterize 𝜋𝜃using a stateless softmax
𝜋(𝑎𝑖)=𝑒𝜃𝑖
Í
𝑗𝑒𝜃𝑗
Given observations sampled from the behavior policy 𝛽, naively
applying policy gradient without taking into account of data bias
as in Equation (2) would converge to a policy
𝜋(𝑎𝑖)=𝑟(𝑎𝑖)𝛽(𝑎𝑖)Í
𝑗𝑟(𝑎𝑗)𝛽(𝑎𝑗)
This has an obvious downside: the more the behavior policy chooses
a sub-optimal item, the more the new policy will be biased toward
choosing the same item.
Figure 2 compares the policies 𝜋𝜃, learned without and with
off-policy correction using SGD [ 7], when the behavior policy 𝛽is
skewed to favor items with least reward. As shown in Figure 2 (left),
naively applying the policy gradient without accounting for the
data biases leads to a sub-optimal policy. In the worst case, if the
behavior policy always chooses the action with the lowest reward,
we will end up with a policy that is arbitrarily poor and mimicking
the behavior policy ( i.e., converge to selecting the least rewarded
item). On the other hand, applying the off-policy correction allows
us to converge to the optimal policy 𝜋∗regardless of how the data
is collected, as shown in Figure 2 (right).
6.1.2 Top-𝐾off-policy correction. To understand the difference
between the standard off-policy correction and the top- 𝐾off-policy
correction proposed, we designed another simulation in which
we can recommend multiple items. Again we assume there are 10
items, with 𝑟(𝑎1)=10,𝑟(𝑎2)=9, and the remaining items are of
much lower reward 𝑟(𝑎𝑖)=1,∀𝑖=3,···,10. Here we focus on
recommending two items, that is, 𝐾=2. The behavior policy 𝛽
follows a uniform distribution, i.e.,choosing each item with equal
chance.
Given an observation (𝑎𝑖,𝑟𝑖)sampled from 𝛽, the standard off-
policy correction has a SGD updates of the following form,
𝜃𝑗=𝜃𝑗+𝜂𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑗)
𝛽(𝑎𝑗)𝑟(𝑎𝑖)
I(𝑗=𝑖)−𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑗)
,∀𝑗=1,···,10
where𝜂is the learning rate. SGD keeps increasing the likelihood
of the item𝑎𝑖proportional to the expected reward under 𝜋𝜃until
𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑖)=1, under which the gradient goes to 0. The top- 𝐾off-policy
correction, on the other hand, has an update of the following form,
𝜃𝑗=𝜃𝑗+𝜂𝜆𝐾(𝑎𝑖)𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑗)
𝛽(𝑎𝑗)𝑟(𝑎𝑖)
I(𝑗=𝑖)−𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑗)
,∀𝑗=1,···,10
where𝜆𝐾(𝑎𝑖)is the multiplier as defined in section 4.3. When
𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑖)is small,𝜆𝐾(𝑎𝑖)≈𝐾, and SGD increases the likelihood of
the item𝑎𝑖more aggressively. As 𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑖)reaches to a large enough
value,𝜆𝐾(𝑎𝑖)goes to 0. As a result, SGD will no longer force to
increase the likelihood of this item even when 𝜋𝜃(𝑎𝑖)is still less
than 1 . This in return allows the second-best item to take up some
mass in the learned policy.
Figure 3 shows the policies 𝜋𝜃learned with the standard (left)
and top-𝐾off-policy correction (right). We can see that with the
standard off-policy correction, although the learned policy is cali-
brated [ 23] in the sense that it still maintains the ordering of itemsFigure 3: Learned policy 𝜋𝜃(left): with standard off-policy
correction; (right): with top-k correction for top-2 recom-
mendation.
w.r.t. their expected reward, it converges to a policy that cast al-
most its entire mass on the top-1 item, that is 𝜋(𝑎1)≈1.0. As a
result, the learned policy loses track of the difference between a
slightly sub-optimal item ( 𝑎2in this example) and the rest. The
top-𝐾correction, on the other hand, converges to a policy that has
a significant mass on the second optimal item, while maintaining
the order of optimality between items. As a result, we are able to
recommend to users two high-reward items and aggregate more
reward overall.
6.2 Live Experiments
While simulated experiments are valuable to understand new meth-
ods, the goal of any recommender systems is ultimately to improve
realuser experience. We therefore conduct a series of A/B exper-
iments running in a live system to measure the benefits of these
approaches.
We evaluate these methods on a production RNN candidate gen-
eration model in use at YouTube, similar to the setup described in
[6,11]. The model is one of many candidate generators that produce
recommendations, which are scored and ranked by a separate rank-
ing model before being shown to users on the YouTube Homepage
or the side panel on the video watch page. As described above, the
model is trained following the REINFORCE algorithm. The imme-
diate reward 𝑟is designed to reflect different user activities; videos
that are recommended but not clicked receive zero reward. The long
term reward 𝑅is aggregated over a time horizon of 4–10 hours. In
each experiment both the control and the test model use the same
reward function. Experiments are run for multiple days, during
which the model is trained continuously with new events being
used as training data with a lag under 24 hours. While we look at
various online metrics with the recommender system during live
experiments, we are going to focus our discussion on the amount
of time user spent watching videos, referred to as ViewTime.
The experiments presented here describe multiple sequential
improvements to the production system. Unfortunately, in such a
setting, the latest recommender system provides the training data
for the next experiment, and as a result, once the production system
incorporates a new approach, subsequent experiments cannot be
compared to the earlier system. Therefore, each of the following
experiments should be taken as the analysis for each component
individually, and we state in each section what was the previous
recommender system from which the new approach receives data.
6.2.1 Exploration. We begin with understanding the value of ex-
ploratory data in improving model quality. In particular, we wouldlike to measure if serving a stochastic policy, under which we sam-
ple from the softmax model as described in Section 5, results in
better recommendations than serving a deterministic policy where
the model always recommends the 𝐾items with the highest proba-
bility according to the softmax.
We conducted a first set of experiments to understand the im-
pact of serving a stochastic policy vs. a deterministic one while
keeping the training process unchanged. In the experiment, the
control population is served with a deterministic policy, while a
small slice of test traffic is served with the stochastic policy as de-
scribed in Section 5. Both policies are based on the same softmax
model trained as in Equation (??). To control the amount of random-
ness in the stochastic policy at serving, we varied the temperature
used in Equation (6). A lower𝑇reduces the stochastic policy to a
deterministic one, while a higher 𝑇leads to a random policy that
recommends any item with equal chance. With 𝑇set to 1, we ob-
served no statistically significant change in ViewTime during the
experiment, which suggests the amount of randomness introduced
from sampling does not hurt the user experience directly.
However, this experimental setup does not account for the ben-
efit of having exploratory data available during training. One of
the main biases in learning from logged data is that the model
does not observe feedback of actions not chosen by the previous
recommendation policy, and exploratory data alleviates this prob-
lem. We conducted a followup experiment where we introduce the
exploratory data into training. To do that, we split users on the
platform into three buckets: 90%, 5%, 5%. The first two buckets are
served with a deterministic policy based on a deterministic model
and the last bucket of users is served with a stochastic policy based
on a model trained with exploratory data. The deterministic model
is trained using only data acquired in the first two buckets, while
the stochastic model is trained on data from the first and third
buckets. As a result, these two models receive the same amount of
training data, but the stochastic model is more likely to observe the
outcomes of some rarer state, action pairs because of exploration.
Following this experimental procedure, we observe a statistically
significant increase in ViewTime by 0.07% in the test population.
While the improvement is not large, it comes from a relatively
small amount of exploration data (only 5% of users experience the
stochastic policy). We expect higher gain now that the stochastic
policy has been fully launched.
6.2.2 Off-Policy Correction. Following the use of a stochastic pol-
icy, we tested incorporating off-policy correction during training.
Here, we follow a more traditional A/B testing setup6where we
train two models, both using the full traffic. The control model is
trained following Equation (??), only weighting examples by the
reward. The test model follows the structure in Figure 1, where the
model learns both a serving policy 𝜋𝜃as well as the behavior policy
𝛽𝜃′. The serving policy is trained with the off-policy correction
described in Equation (4)where each example is weighted not only
by the reward but also the importance weight𝜋𝜃
𝛽𝜃′for addressing
data bias.
During experiments, we observed the learned policy (test) starts
to deviate from the behavior policy (control) that is used to acquire
6In practice, we use a fairly small portion of users as test population; as a result, the
feedback we logged are almost entirely acquired by the control model.Figure 4: CDF of videos nominated in control and test popu-
lation according to rank of videos in the control population.
Standard off-policy correction addresses the “rich get richer“
phenomenon.
the traffic. Figure 4 plots a CDF of videos selected by our nominator
in control and experiment according to the rank of videos in control
population (rank 1 is the most nominated video by the control
model, and the rightmost is least nominated). We see that instead of
mimicking the model (shown in blue) used for data collection, the
test model (shown in green) favors videos that are less explored by
the control model. We observed that the proportion of nominations
coming from videos outside of the top ranks is increased by nearly
a factor of three in experiment. This aligns with what we observed
in the simulation shown in Figure 2. While ignoring the bias in
the data collection process creates a “rich get richer“ phenomenon,
whereby a video is nominated in the learned policy simply because
it was heavily nominated in the behavior policy, incorporating the
off-policy correction reduces this effect.
Interestingly, in live experiment, we did not observe a statis-
tically significant change in ViewTime between control and test
population. However, we saw an increase in the number of videos
viewed by 0.53%, which was statistically significant, suggesting that
users are indeed getting more enjoyment.
6.2.3 Top-𝐾Off-Policy. We now focus on understanding if the
top-𝐾off-policy learning improves the user experience over the
standard off-policy approach. In this case, we launched an equiv-
alently structured model now trained with the top- 𝐾off-policy
corrected gradient update given in Equation (7)and compared its
performance to the previous off-policy model, described in Section
6.2.2. In this experiment, we use 𝐾=16and capping 𝑐=𝑒3in
Equation (9); we will explore these hyperparameters in more detail
below.
As described in Section 4.3 and demonstrated in the simula-
tion in Section 6.1.2, while the standard off-policy correction we
tested before leads to a policy that is overly-focused on getting the
top-1 item correct, the top- 𝐾off-policy correction converges to a
smoother policy under which there is a non-zero mass on the other
items of interest to users as well. This in turn leads to better top- 𝐾
recommendation. Given that we can recommend multiple items,
the top-𝐾off-policy correction leads us to present a better full-
page experience to users than the standard off-policy correction.
In particular, we find that the amount of ViewTime increased by
Figure 5: top- 𝐾off-policy correction with varying 𝐾.
0.85% in the test traffic, with the number of videos viewed slightly
decreasing by 0.16%.
6.2.4 Understanding Hyperparameters. Last, we perform a direct
comparison of how different hyperparameter choices affect the
top-𝐾off-policy correction, and in turn the user experience on
the platform. We perform these tests after the top- 𝐾off-policy
correction became the production model.
Number of actions. We first explore the choice of 𝐾in the top-𝐾
off-policy correction. We train three structurally identical models,
using𝐾∈{1,2,16,32}; The control (production) model is the top- 𝐾
off-policy model with 𝐾=16. We plot the results during a 5-day
experiment in Figure 5. As explained in Section 4.3, with 𝐾=1,
the top-𝐾off-policy correction reduces to the standard off-policy
correction. A drop of 0.66% ViewTime was observed for 𝐾=1
compared with the baseline with 𝐾=16. This further confirms the
gain we observed shifting from the standard off-policy correction to
the top-𝐾off-policy correction. Setting 𝐾=2still performs worse
than the production model, but the gap is reduced to 0.35%. 𝐾=32
achieves similar performance as the baseline. We conducted follow
up experiment which showed mildly positive gain in ViewTime
(+0.15% statistically significant ) when𝐾=8.
Capping. Here we consider the effect of the variance reduction
techniques on the final quality of the learned recommender. Among
the techniques discussed in Section 4.4, weight capping brings the
biggest gain online in initial experiments. We did not observe fur-
ther metric improvements from normalized importance sampling,
or TRPO [ 36]. We conducted a regression test to study the impact
of weight capping. We compare a model trained using cap 𝑐=𝑒3
(as in production model) in Equation (9)with one trained using
𝑐=𝑒5. As we lift the restriction on the importance weight, the
learned policy 𝜋𝜃could potentially overfit to a few logged actions
that accidentally receives high reward. Swaminathan and Joachims
[43] described a similar effect of propensity overfitting. During live
experiment, we observe a significant drop of 0.52% in ViewTime
when the cap on importance weight was lifted.
7 CONCLUSION
In this paper we have laid out a practical implementation of a policy
gradient-based top- 𝐾recommender system in use at YouTube. We
scale up REINFORCE to an action space in the orders of millions
and have it stably running in a live production system. To realizethe full benefits of such an approach, we have demonstrated how to
address biases in logged data through incorporating a learned log-
ging policy and a novel top- 𝐾off-policy correction. We conducted
extensive analysis and live experiments to measure empirically the
importance of accounting for and addressing these underlying bi-
ases. We believe these are important steps in making reinforcement
learning practically impactful for recommendation and will provide
a solid foundation for researchers and practitioners to explore new
directions of applying RL to recommender systems.
8 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We thank Craig Boutilier for his valuable comments and discussions.
REFERENCES
[1]Joshua Achiam, David Held, Aviv Tamar, and Pieter Abbeel. 2017. Constrained
policy optimization. arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.10528 (2017).
[2]Alekh Agarwal, Daniel Hsu, Satyen Kale, John Langford, Lihong Li, and Robert
Schapire. 2014. Taming the monster: A fast and simple algorithm for contextual
bandits. In International Conference on Machine Learning . 1638–1646.
[3] Peter Auer, Nicolo Cesa-Bianchi, and Paul Fischer. 2002. Finite-time analysis of
the multiarmed bandit problem. Machine learning 47, 2-3 (2002), 235–256.
[4]Yoshua Bengio, Jean-Sébastien Senécal, et al .2003. Quick Training of Probabilistic
Neural Nets by Importance Sampling.. In AISTATS . 1–9.
[5]James Bennett, Stan Lanning, et al .2007. The netflix prize. In Proceedings of KDD
cup and workshop , Vol. 2007. New York, NY, USA, 35.
[6]Alex Beutel, Paul Covington, Sagar Jain, Can Xu, Jia Li, Vince Gatto, and Ed H
Chi. 2018. Latent Cross: Making Use of Context in Recurrent Recommender
Systems. In WSDM . ACM, 46–54.
[7]Léon Bottou. 2010. Large-scale machine learning with stochastic gradient descent.
InProceedings of COMPSTAT’2010 . Springer, 177–186.
[8]Léon Bottou, Jonas Peters, Joaquin Quiñonero-Candela, Denis X Charles, D Max
Chickering, Elon Portugaly, Dipankar Ray, Patrice Simard, and Ed Snelson. 2013.
Counterfactual reasoning and learning systems: The example of computational
advertising. The Journal of Machine Learning Research 14, 1 (2013), 3207–3260.
[9]Olivier Chapelle and Lihong Li. 2011. An empirical evaluation of thompson
sampling. In Advances in neural information processing systems . 2249–2257.
[10] Junyoung Chung, Caglar Gulcehre, KyungHyun Cho, and Yoshua Bengio. 2014.
Empirical evaluation of gated recurrent neural networks on sequence modeling.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1412.3555 (2014).
[11] Paul Covington, Jay Adams, and Emre Sargin. 2016. Deep neural networks
for youtube recommendations. In Proceedings of the 10th ACM Conference on
Recommender Systems . ACM, 191–198.
[12] Nathaniel D Daw, John P O’doherty, Peter Dayan, Ben Seymour, and Raymond J
Dolan. 2006. Cortical substrates for exploratory decisions in humans. Nature
441, 7095 (2006), 876.
[13] Alexandre Gilotte, Clément Calauzènes, Thomas Nedelec, Alexandre Abraham,
and Simon Dollé. 2018. Offline A/B testing for Recommender Systems. In WSDM .
ACM, 198–206.
[14] Ruiqi Guo, Sanjiv Kumar, Krzysztof Choromanski, and David Simcha. 2016. Quan-
tization based fast inner product search. In Artificial Intelligence and Statistics .
482–490.
[15] Nikolaus Hansen and Andreas Ostermeier. 2001. Completely derandomized
self-adaptation in evolution strategies. Evolutionary computation 9, 2 (2001),
159–195.
[16] Xiangnan He, Lizi Liao, Hanwang Zhang, Liqiang Nie, Xia Hu, and Tat-Seng
Chua. 2017. Neural collaborative filtering. In Proceedings of the 26th International
Conference on World Wide Web . International World Wide Web Conferences
Steering Committee, 173–182.
[17] Balázs Hidasi, Alexandros Karatzoglou, Linas Baltrunas, and Domonkos Tikk.
2015. Session-based recommendations with recurrent neural networks. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1511.06939 (2015).
[18] Sepp Hochreiter and Jürgen Schmidhuber. 1997. Long short-term memory. Neural
computation 9, 8 (1997), 1735–1780.
[19] Yifan Hu, Yehuda Koren, and Chris Volinsky. 2008. Collaborative filtering for
implicit feedback datasets. In ICDM . Ieee, 263–272.
[20] How Jing and Alexander J Smola. 2017. Neural survival recommender. In WSDM .
ACM, 515–524.
[21] Thorsten Joachims, Adith Swaminathan, and Tobias Schnabel. 2017. Unbiased
learning-to-rank with biased feedback. In Proceedings of the Tenth ACM Interna-
tional Conference on Web Search and Data Mining . ACM, 781–789.
[22] Jens Kober, J Andrew Bagnell, and Jan Peters. 2013. Reinforcement learning in
robotics: A survey. The International Journal of Robotics Research 32, 11 (2013),1238–1274.
[23] Maksim Lapin, Matthias Hein, and Bernt Schiele. 2016. Loss functions for top-k
error: Analysis and insights. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition . 1468–1477.
[24] Thomas Laurent and James von Brecht. 2016. A recurrent neural network without
chaos. arXiv preprint arXiv:1612.06212 (2016).
[25] Sergey Levine, Chelsea Finn, Trevor Darrell, and Pieter Abbeel. 2016. End-to-end
training of deep visuomotor policies. JMLR 17, 1 (2016), 1334–1373.
[26] Sergey Levine and Vladlen Koltun. 2013. Guided policy search. In International
Conference on Machine Learning . 1–9.
[27] Lihong Li, Wei Chu, John Langford, and Robert E Schapire. 2010. A contextual-
bandit approach to personalized news article recommendation. In Proceedings of
the 19th international conference on World wide web . ACM, 661–670.
[28] Jérémie Mary, Romaric Gaudel, and Philippe Preux. 2015. Bandits and recom-
mender systems. In International Workshop on Machine Learning, Optimization
and Big Data . Springer, 325–336.
[29] Volodymyr Mnih, Adria Puigdomenech Badia, Mehdi Mirza, Alex Graves, Tim-
othy Lillicrap, Tim Harley, David Silver, and Koray Kavukcuoglu. 2016. Asyn-
chronous methods for deep reinforcement learning. In International conference
on machine learning . 1928–1937.
[30] Volodymyr Mnih, Koray Kavukcuoglu, David Silver, Alex Graves, Ioannis
Antonoglou, Daan Wierstra, and Martin Riedmiller. 2013. Playing atari with deep
reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.5602 (2013).
[31] Rémi Munos, Tom Stepleton, Anna Harutyunyan, and Marc Bellemare. 2016. Safe
and efficient off-policy reinforcement learning. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems . 1054–1062.
[32] Art B. Owen. 2013. Monte Carlo theory, methods and examples .
[33] Doina Precup. 2000. Eligibility traces for off-policy policy evaluation. Computer
Science Department Faculty Publication Series (2000), 80.
[34] Doina Precup, Richard S Sutton, and Sanjoy Dasgupta. 2001. Off-policy temporal-
difference learning with function approximation. In ICML . 417–424.
[35] Tobias Schnabel, Paul N Bennett, Susan T Dumais, and Thorsten Joachims. 2018.
Short-term satisfaction and long-term coverage: Understanding how users tol-
erate algorithmic exploration. In Proceedings of the Eleventh ACM International
Conference on Web Search and Data Mining . ACM, 513–521.
[36] John Schulman, Sergey Levine, Pieter Abbeel, Michael Jordan, and Philipp Moritz.
2015. Trust region policy optimization. In International Conference on Machine
Learning . 1889–1897.
[37] Suvash Sedhain, Aditya Krishna Menon, Scott Sanner, and Lexing Xie. 2015.
Autorec: Autoencoders meet collaborative filtering. In Proceedings of the 24th
International Conference on World Wide Web . ACM, 111–112.
[38] David Silver, Aja Huang, Chris J Maddison, Arthur Guez, Laurent Sifre, George
Van Den Driessche, Julian Schrittwieser, Ioannis Antonoglou, Veda Panneershel-
vam, Marc Lanctot, et al .2016. Mastering the game of Go with deep neural
networks and tree search. nature 529, 7587 (2016), 484.
[39] Alex Strehl, John Langford, Lihong Li, and Sham M Kakade. 2010. Learning from
logged implicit exploration data. In Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems . 2217–2225.
[40] Richard S Sutton, Andrew G Barto, et al .1998. Reinforcement learning: An intro-
duction . MIT press.
[41] Richard S Sutton, David A McAllester, Satinder P Singh, and Yishay Mansour. 2000.
Policy gradient methods for reinforcement learning with function approximation.
InAdvances in neural information processing systems . 1057–1063.
[42] Adith Swaminathan and Thorsten Joachims. 2015. Batch learning from logged
bandit feedback through counterfactual risk minimization. Journal of Machine
Learning Research 16, 1 (2015), 1731–1755.
[43] Adith Swaminathan and Thorsten Joachims. 2015. The self-normalized estimator
for counterfactual learning. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems .
3231–3239.
[44] Adith Swaminathan, Akshay Krishnamurthy, Alekh Agarwal, Miro Dudik, John
Langford, Damien Jose, and Imed Zitouni. 2017. Off-policy evaluation for slate
recommendation. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems .
[45] Yong Kiam Tan, Xinxing Xu, and Yong Liu. 2016. Improved recurrent neural
networks for session-based recommendations. In Proceedings of the 1st Workshop
on Deep Learning for Recommender Systems . ACM, 17–22.
[46] Gerald Tesauro. 1995. Temporal difference learning and TD-Gammon. Commun.
ACM 38, 3 (1995), 58–68.
[47] Philip Thomas and Emma Brunskill. 2016. Data-efficient off-policy policy evalua-
tion for reinforcement learning. In ICML . 2139–2148.
[48] Ronald J Williams. 1992. Simple statistical gradient-following algorithms for
connectionist reinforcement learning. Machine learning 8, 3-4 (1992), 229–256.
[49] Chao-Yuan Wu, Amr Ahmed, Alex Beutel, Alexander J Smola, and How Jing. 2017.
Recurrent recommender networks. In Proceedings of the tenth ACM international
conference on web search and data mining . ACM, 495–503.
[50] Xiangyu Zhao, Long Xia, Liang Zhang, Zhuoye Ding, Dawei Yin, and Jiliang Tang.
2018. Deep Reinforcement Learning for Page-wise Recommendations. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1805.02343 (2018).