Virtual-Taobao: Virtualizing Real-world Online Retail
Environment for Reinforcement Learning
Jing-Cheng Shi1;2, Yang Yu1, Qing Da2, Shi-Yong Chen1, An-Xiang Zeng2
1National Key Laboratory for Novel Software Technology, Nanjing University, China
2Alibaba Group, China
Abstract
Applying reinforcement learning in physical-world tasks is extremely challenging. It is
commonly infeasible to sample a large number of trials, as required by current reinforcement
learning methods, in a physical environment. This paper reports our project on using
reinforcement learning for better commodity search in Taobao, one of the largest online
retail platforms and meanwhile a physical environment with a high sampling cost. Instead
of training reinforcement learning in Taobao directly, we present our approach: ﬁrst we
build Virtual Taobao , a simulator learned from historical customer behavior data through the
proposed GAN-SD (GAN for Simulating Distributions) and MAIL (multi-agent adversarial
imitation learning), and then we train policies in Virtual Taobao with no physical costs
in which ANC (Action Norm Constraint) strategy is proposed to reduce over-ﬁtting. In
experiments, Virtual Taobao is trained from hundreds of millions of customers’ records,
and its properties are compared with the real environment. The results disclose that Virtual
Taobao faithfully recovers important properties of the real environment. We also show that
the policies trained in Virtual Taobao can have signiﬁcantly superior online performance
to the traditional supervised approaches. We hope our work could shed some light on
reinforcement learning applications in complex physical environments.
1 Introduction
With the incorporation of deep neural networks, Reinforcement Learning (RL) has achieved
signiﬁcant progress recently, yielding lots of successes in games (Mnih et al., 2013; Silver et al.,
2016; Mnih et al., 2016), robotics (Kretzschmar et al., 2016), natural language processing (Su
et al., 2016), etc. However, there are few studies on the application of RL in physical-world tasks
like large online systems interacting with customers, which may have great inﬂuence on the user
experience as well as the social wealth.
Large online systems, though rarely incorporated with RL methods, indeed yearn for the
embrace of RL. In fact, a variety of online systems involve the sequential decision making as
1arXiv:1805.10000v1  [cs.AI]  25 May 2018well as the delayed feedbacks. For instance, an automated trading system needs to manage
the portfolio according to the historical metrics and all the related information with a high
frequency, and carefully adjusts its strategy through analyzing the long-term gains. Similarly, an
E-commerce search engine observes a buyer’s request, and displays a page of ranked commodities
to the buyer, then updates its decision model after obtaining the user feedback to pursue revenue
maximization. During a session, it keeps displaying new pages according to latest information
of the buyer if he/she continues to browse. Previous solutions are mostly based on supervised
learning. They are incapable of learning sequential decisions and maximizing long-term reward.
Thus RL solutions are highly appealing, but was not well noticed only until recently (Hu et al.,
2018; Chen et al., 2018).
One major barrier to directly applying RL in these scenarios is that, current RL algorithms
commonly require a large amount of interactions with the environment, which take high physical
costs, such as real money, time from days to months, bad user experience, and even lives
in medical tasks. To avoid physical costs, simulators are often employed for RL training.
Google’s application of data center cooling (Gao & Jamidar, 2014) demonstrates a good practice:
the system dynamics are approximated by a neural network, and a policy is later trained in
the simulated environment via some RL algorithms. In our project for commodity search in
Taobao.com, we have the similar process: build a simulator, i.e, Virtual Taobao, then the policy
can be trained ofﬂine in the simulator by any RL algorithm maximizing long-term reward. Ideally,
the obtained policy would perform equally well in the real environment, or at least provides a
good initialization for cheaper online tuning.
However, different from approximating the dynamics of data centers, simulating the behavior
of hundreds of millions of customers in a dynamic environment is much more challenging. We
treat customers behavior data to be generated from customers’ policies. Deriving a policy from
data can be realized by existing imitation learning approaches (Schaal, 1999; Argall et al., 2009).
The behavior cloning (BC) methods (Pomerleau, 1992) learn a policy mainly by supervised
methods from the state-action data. BC requires the i.i.d. assumption on the demonstration data
that is unsatisﬁed in RL tasks. The inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) methods (Ng et al.,
2000) learn a reward function from the data, and a policy is then trained according to the reward
function. IRL relaxes the i.i.d. assumption of the data, but still assumes that the environment is
static. Note that the customer behavior data is collected under a ﬁxed Taobao platform strategy.
When we are training the platform strategy, the environment of the customers will change and
thus the learned policy could fail. All the above issues make these method less practical for
building the Virtual Taobao.
In this work, we make Virtual Taobao through generating customers and generating interac-
tions. Customers with search request, which has a very complex and widely spanned distribution,
come into Taobao and trigger the platform search engine. We propose the GAN-for-Simulating-
Distribution (GAN-SD) approach to simulate customers including their request. Since the
original GAN methods often undesirably mismatch with the target distribution ( ?), GAN-SD
adopts an extra distribution constraint to generate diverse customers. To generate interactions,
which is the key component of Virtual Taobao, we propose the Multi-agent Adversarial Imitation
2customers
Taobao platform
discriminatorinteraction datavirtual data
reinforcement learning with ANC
customer generatorvirtual platform
interaction generatorvirtual customer           MAILGAN-SD
customer dataFigure 1: Virtual-Taobao architecture for reinforcement learning.
Learning (MAIL) approach. We could have directly invoked Taobao platform strategy in Virtual
Taobao, which however makes a static environment that will not adapt to changes in the real
environment. Therefore, MAIL learns the customers’ policies and the platform policy simultane-
ously. In order to learn the two sides, MAIL follows the idea of GAIL (Ho & Ermon, 2016) using
generative adversarial framework (Goodfellow et al., 2014). MAIL trains a discriminator to
distinguish the simulated interactions from the real interactions; the discrimination signal feeds
back as the reward to train the customer and platform policies for generating more real-alike
interactions. After generating customers and interactions, Virtual Taobao is built. As we ﬁnd that
a powerful algorithm may over ﬁt to Virtual Taobao, which means it can do well in the virtual
environment but poorly in the real, the proposed Action Norm Constraint (ANC) strategy can
reduce such over-ﬁtting. In experiments, we build Virtual Taobao from hundreds of millions
of customers’ records, and compare it with the real environment. Our results disclose that
Virtual Taobao successfully reconstructs properties very close to the real environment. We then
employ Virtual Taobao to train platform policy for maximizing the revenue. Comparing with the
traditional supervised learning approach, the strategy trained in Virtual Taobao achieves more
than 2% improvement of revenue in the real environment.
The rest of the sections present the background, the Virtual Taobao approach, the ofﬂine and
online experiments, and the conclusion, in order.
2 Background
2.1 Reinforcement Learning
Reinforcement learning (RL) solves sequential decision making problems through trial-and-error.
We consider a standard RL formulation based on a Markov Decision Process (MDP). An MDP is
described by a tuple hS;A;T;r;iwhereSis the observation space, Ais the action space and
is the discount factor. T:SA!S is the transition function to generate next states from
3the current state-action pair. r:SA! Rdenotes the reward function. At each timestep t,
the RL agent observes a state st2S and chooses an action at2A following a policy . Then it
will be transfered into a new state st+1according toT(st;at)and receives an immediate reward
rt=R(st;at).Rt=P1
k=0trt+kis the discounted, accumulated reward with the discount
factor. The goal of RL is to learn a policy :SA! [0;1]that solves the MDP by
maximizing the expected discounted return, i.e., = arg maxE[Rt].
2.2 Imitation Learning
It is apparently a more effective task to act following by a teacher rather than learning a policy
from scratch. In addition, the manual-designed reward function in RL may not be the real one
(Farley & Taylor, 1991; Hoyt & Taylor, 1981) and a tiny change of reward function in RL may
result in a totally different policy. In imitation learning, the agent is given trajectory samples
from some expert policy, and infers the expert policy.
Behavior Cloning &Inverse Reinforcement Learning are two traditional approaches for
imitation learning: behavior cloning learns a policy as a supervised learning problem over
state-action pairs from expert trajectories (Pomerleau, 1992); and inverse reinforcement learning
ﬁnds a reward function under which the expert is uniquely optimal (Russell, 1998), and then
train a policy according to the reward.
While behavior cloning methods are powerful for one-shot imitation (Duan et al., 2017), it
needs large training data to work even on non-trivial tasks, due to compounding error caused by
covariate shift (Ross & Bagnell, 2010). It also tends to be brittle and fails when the agent diverges
too much from the demonstration trajectories (Ross et al., 2011). On the other hand, inverse
reinforcement learning ﬁnds the reward function being optimized by the expert, so compounding
error, a problem for methods that ﬁt single-step decisions, is not an issue. IRL algorithms are
often expensive to run because they need reinforcement learning in a inner loop. Some works
have focused on scaling IRL to large environments (Finn et al., 2016).
2.3 Generative Adversarial Networks
Generative adversarial networks (GANs) (Goodfellow et al., 2014) and its variants are rapidly
emerging unsupervised machine learning techniques. They are implemented by a system of
two neural networks contesting with each other in a zero-sum game framework. They train
a discriminator Dto maximize the probability of assigning the correct labels to both training
examples and generated samples, and a generator Gto minimize the classiﬁcation accuracy
according to D. The discriminator and the generator are implemented by neural networks, and
are updated alternately in a competitive way. Recent studies have shown that GANs are capable
of generating faithful real-world images ( ?), implying their applicability in modeling complex
distributions.
Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning (Ho & Ermon, 2016) was recently proposed to
overcome the brittleness of behavior cloning as well as the expensiveness of inverse reinforcement
4learning using GAN framework. GAIL allows the agent to interact with the environment and
learns the policy by RL methods while the reward function is improved during training. Thus
the RL method is the generator in the GAN framework. GAIL employs a discriminator Dto
measure the similarity between the policy-generated trajectories and the expert trajectories.
GAIL is proven to achieve the similar theoretical and empirical results as IRL and GAIL
is more efﬁcient. GAIL has become a popular choice for imitation learning (Kueﬂer et al.)
and there already exist model-based (Baram et al., 2016) and third-person (Stadie et al., 2017)
extensions.
3 Virtual Taobao
3.1 Problem Description
Commodity search is the core business in Taobao, one of the largest retail platforms. Taobao
can be considered as a system where the search engine interacts with customers. The search
engine in Taobao deals with millisecond-level responses to billions of commodities, while the
customers’ preference of commodities are also rich and diverse. From the engine’s point of view,
Taobao platform works as the following. A customer comes and sends a search request to the
search engine. Then the engine makes an appropriate response to the request by sorting the
related commodities and displaying the page view (PV) to the customer. The customer gives
the feedback signal, e.g. buying, turning to the next page, and leaving, according to the PVs
as well as the buyer’s own intention. The search engine receives the signal and makes a new
decision for the next PV request. The business goal of Taobao is to increase sales by optimizing
the strategy of displaying PVs. As the feedback signal from a customer depends on a sequence
of PVs, it’s reasonable to consider it as a multi-step decision problem rather than a one-step
supervised learning problem.
Considering the search engine as an agent, and the customers as an environment, commodity
search is a sequential decision making problem. It is reasonable to assume customers can only
remember a limited number, m, of the latest PVs, which means the feedback signals are only
inﬂuenced by mhistorical actions of the search agent. Let a2A denote the action of the search
engine agent and Fadenote the feedback distribution from customers at a, given the historical
actions from the engine a0;a1;:::;an 1, we haveFanjan 1;an 2;:::;a 0=Fanjan 1;:::;an m.
On the other hand, the shopping process for a customer can also be viewed as a sequential
decision process. As a customer’s feedback is inﬂuenced by the last mPVs, which are generated
by the search engine and are affected by the last feedback from the customer. The customers’
behaviors also have the Markov property. The process of developing the shopping preference for
a customer can be regarded as a process optimizing his shopping policy in Taobao.
The engine and customers are the environments of each other. Figure 2 shows the details. In
this work, PV info only contains the page index.
We useM=hS;A;T;R;iandMc=hSc;Ac;Tc;Rc;cito represent the decision
5EngineViewCustomer Viewstateactionuser profileranking
statesearch resultsaction!"requestbuy/leave/turnstateuser profile
stateactionbuy/leave/turnstateactionactionstateEngine view Customer view
State customer feature and request customer feature, engine action and PV info
Action parametermized as a vector in Rdbuy, turn page or leave
Figure 2: Taobao search in engine view and in customer view
process for engine and customers. Note that the customers with requests come from the real
environmentPc.
For the engine, the state remains the same if the customer turn to the next page. The state
changes if the customer sends another request or leaves Taobao. For the customer, As Sc=
SA N, where Ndenotes the page index space, sc2Sccan be written ashs;a;ni2SA N.
Formally:
T(s;a)=(
s;ifac=turn page
s0Pc;otherwiseTc(sc;ac)=8
><
>:hs0;(s0);0i;s0Pcifac=leave
hs;a;n +1i;ifac=turn page
terminates;ifac=buy, orn>MaxIndex
For the engine, if the customer buy something, we give the engine a reward of 1 otherwise 0. For
customers, the reward function is currently unknown to us.
3.2 GAN-SD: Generating Customers
To build the Virtual Taobao, we need to ﬁrstly generate the customer, i.e. sample a user Ucthat
includes its request from Pcto trigger the interaction process. We aims at constructing a sample
generator to produce similar customers with that of the real Taobao. It’s known that GANs are
designed to generate samples close to the original data and achieves great success for generating
images. We thus employ GANs to tightly simulate the real request generator.
However, we ﬁnd that GANs empirically tends to generate the most frequent occurring
customers. To generate a distribution rather than a single instance, we propose Generative
Adversarial Networks for Simulating Distribution (GAN-SD), as in Algorithm 1. Similar to
GANs, GAN-SD maintains a generator Gand a discriminator D. The discriminator tries to
correctly distinguish the generated data from the training data by maximizing the following
objective function
EpxD[logD(x)] +EpzG[log(1 D(G(z)))];
while the generator is updated to maximize the following objective function
EpxD;pzG[D(G(z)) +H(V(G(z))) KL (V(G(z))jjV(x))]:
6Algorithm 1 GAN-SD
1:Input: Real data distribution PD
2:Initialize training variables D;G
3:fori= 0;1;2:::do
4: forksteps do
5: Sample minibatch from noise prior pGand real dataset pD
6: Update the generator by gradient:
rGEpxG;pxD[D(G(z)) +H(G(z)) KL (G(z)jjx)]
7: end for
8: Sample minibatch from noise prior pGand real dataset pD
9: Update the discriminator by gradient:
rDEpxD[logD(x)] +EpxG[log(1 D(G(z)))]
10:end for
11:Output: Customer generator G
G(z)is the generated instance from the noise sample z.V()denotes some variable associ-
ated with the inner value. In our implementation, V()is the customer type of the instance.
H(V(G(z)))denotes the entropy of the variable from the generated data, which is used to make
a wider distribution. KL(V(G(z))kV(x))is theKL-divergence between the variables from the
generated and training data, which is used to guide the generated distribution by the distribution
in the training data. With the entropy and KLdivergence constraints, GAN-SD learns a generator
with more guided information form the real data, and can generate much better distribution than
the original GAN.
3.3 MAIL: Generating Interactions
We generate interactions between the customers and the platform, which is the key of Virtual
Taobao, through simulating customer policy. We accomplish this by proposing the Multi-agent
Adversarial Imitation Learning (MAIL) approach following the idea of GAIL.
Different from GAIL that trains one agent policy in a static environment, MAIL is a multi-
agent approach that trains the customer policy as well as the engine policy. In such way, the
learned customer policy is able to generalize with different engine policies. By MAIL, to imitate
the customer agent policy c, we should know the environment of the agent, which means
we also need to imitate PcandTc, together with reward function Rc. The reward function is
designed as the non-discriminativeness of the generated data and the historical state-action pairs.
The employed RL algorithm will maximize the reward, implying generating indistinguishable
data.
However, training the two policies, e.g., iteratively, could results in a very large search space,
7Algorithm 2 MAIL
1:Input: Expert trajectories e, customer distribution Pc
2:Initialize variables ;;
3:fori= 0;1;2:::;I do
4: forj= 0;1;2:::;J do
5:j=;; sPc;a(s;);sc=hs;ai
6: while NOT TERMINATED do
7: sampleac(sc;), add (sc;ac)toj, generatescTc
(sc;acjPc)
8: end while
9: end for
10: Sample trajectories gfrom0J
11: Updateto in the direction to maximize
Eg[log(Rc
(s;a))] +Ee[log(1 Rc
(s;a))]
12: Update;by optimizing c
;with RL inMc
13:end for
14:Output: The customer agent policy c
and thus poor performance. Fortunately, we can optimize them jointly. We parameterize the
customer policy c
by, the search engine policy by, and the reward function Rby. We
also denoteTcasTc
. Due to the relationship of the two policies:
c(sc;ac) =c(hs;a;ni;ac) =c(hs;(s;);ni;ac)
which shows that, given the engine policy, the joint policy c
;can be viewed as SNtoAc.
AsSc=SA N, we still consider c
;as a mapping from SctoAcfor convenience. The
formalization of joint policy brings the chance to simulate andctogether.
We display the procedure of MAIL in Algorithm 2. To run MAIL, we need the historical
trajectories eand a customer distribution Pc, which is required by Tc
. In this paper,Pcis
learned by GAN-SD in advance. After initializing the variables, we start the main procedure of
MAIL: In each iteration, we collect trajectories during the interaction between the customer agent
and the environment (line 4-9). Then we sample from the generated trajectories and optimize
reward function by a gradient method (line 10-11). Then, ;will be updated by optimizing
the joint policy c
;inMcwith a RL method (line 12). When the iteration terminates, MAIL
returns the customer agent policy c.
After simulating the distribution Pcand policyc, which means we know how customers
are generated and how they response to PVs, Virtual Taobao is build. We can generate the
interactions by deploy the engine policy to the virtual environment.
83.4 ANC: Reduce Over-ﬁt to Virtual Taobao
We observe that if the deployed policy is similar to the historical policy, Virtual Taobao tends
to behave more similarly than if the two policies are completely different. However, similar
policy means little improvement. A powerful RL algorithm, such as TRPO, can easily train an
agent to over-ﬁt Virtual Taobao which means it can performs well in the virtual environment
but poorly in the real environment. Actually, we need to trade off between the accuracy and the
improvement. However, as the historical engine policy is unavailable in practice, we can not
measure the distance between a current policy and the historical one. Fortunately, we note that
the norms of most historical actions are relatively small, we propose the Action Norm Constraint
(ANC) strategy to control the norm of taken actions. That is, when the norm of the taken action
is larger than the norms of most historical actions, we give the agent a penalty. Speciﬁcally, we
modiﬁed the original reward function as follow:
r0(s;a) =r(s;a)
1 +maxfjjajj ;0g(1)
4 Empirical Study
4.1 Experiment Setting
To verify the effect of Virtual Taobao, we use following measurements as indicators.
Total Turnover (TT) The value of the commodities sold.
Total Volume (TV) The amount of the commodities sold.
Rate of Purchase Page (R2P) The ratio of the number of PVs where purchase takes place.
All the measurements are adopted in online experiments. In ofﬂine experiments we only
use R2P as we didn’t predict the customer number and commodity price in this work. For
the convenience of comparing these indicators between the real and virtual environment, we
deployed a random engine policy in the real environments (speciﬁcally, an online A/B test bucket
in Taobao) in advance and collect the corresponding trajectories as the historical data (about 400
million records). Note that, we have no assumption of the engine policy which generates the
data, i.e., it could be any unknown complex model.
We simulate the customer distribution Pcby GAN-SD with == 1. Then we build
Virtual Taobao by MAIL. The RL method in MAIL we used is TRPO. All of function approxi-
mators in this work are implemented by multi-layer perceptions. Due to the resource limitation,
we can only compare two policies at the same time in online experiments.
91234567800.20.40.6Category ProportionGround-TruthVirtual-Taobao12300.511.5Power ProportionGround-TruthVirtual-TaobaoFalseTrue00.511.5Level ProportionGround-TruthVirtual-TaobaoFigure 3: The customer distributions between Taobao and the Virtual Taobao.
1234567800.10.2R2P over CategoryGround-TruthVirtual-Taobao12300.050.10.15R2P over PowerGround-TruthVirtual-TaobaoTrueFalse00.050.10.15R2P over LevelGround-TruthVirtual-Taobao
Figure 4: The R2P distributions between Taobao and the Virtual Taobao.
4.2 On Virtual Taobao Properties
4.2.1 Proportion & R2P over Features
The proportion of different customers is a basic criterion for testing Virtual Taobao. We generate
1,000,000 customers by Pcand calculate the proportions over three features respectively, i.e.
query category (from one to eight), purchase power (from one to three) and high level indicator
(True or False). We compare the result with the ground truth, i.e., proportions in Taobao. Figure
3 indicates that distribution is similar in the virtual and real environments.
People have different preference of consumption which reﬂects in R2P. We report the
inﬂuence of customer features on the R2P in Virtual Taobao and compare it with the results in
the real. As shown in Figure 4, the results in Virtual Taobao are quite similar with the ground
truth.
4.2.2 R2P over Time
R2P of the customers varies with time in Taobao, thus Virtual Taobao should have the similar
property. Since our customer model is independent of time, we divide the one-day historical data
into 12 parts in order of time to simulate process of R2P changing over time. We train a virtual
environment on every divided dataset independently. Then we deploy the same historical engine
policy, i.e. the random policy, in the virtual environments respectively. We report the R2Ps in the
virtual and the real environment. Figure 5 indicates Virtual Taobao can reﬂect the trend of R2P
over time.
1000:00 06:00 12:00 18:00 24:000.060.070.080.090.1R2P
Ground-Truth
Virtual TaobaoFigure 5: R2P over time
00:0006:0012:0018:0024:000%1%2%3%Impr. of TRPO-ANC to TRPOTTTV
Figure 6: Impr. of TRPO-ANC to TRPO
4.3 Reinforcement Learning in Virtual Taobao
4.3.1 Generalization Capability of ANC
Virtual Taobao should have generalization ability as it is built from the past but serves for the
future.
Firstly, we will show that the ANC strategy’s ability on generalization. We train TRPO and
TRPO-ANC, in which = 1and= 0:01, in Vitual Taobao, and compare the results in real
Taobao. Figure 6 shows the TT and TV increase of TRPO-ANC to TRPO. TRPO-ANC policy is
always better than TRPO policy which indicates that the ANC strategy can reduce over-ﬁtting to
Virtual Taobao.
4.3.2 Generalization Capability of MAIL
Then, we’ll verify the generalization ability of MAIL. We build a virtual environment by MAIL
from one-day’s data and build another 3 environments by MAIL whose data is from one day, a
week and a month later. We run TRPO-ANC in the ﬁrst environment and deploy the result policy
in other environments and see the decrease of R2P. We repeat the same process except that we
110 day1 day1 week1 month-10%0%10%20%30%Impr. of RL to RandomVTaobao by MAILVTaobao by BCTable 1: Generalization capability of Virtual Taobao
replace MAIL with a behavior cloning method (BC). Figure 1 shows the R2P improvement of
the policy trained in the two Virtual Taobao to a random policy. The R2P drops faster in the BC
environment. The policy in BC environment even performs worse than then random policy after
a month.
4.3.3 Online Experiments
We compare the policy generated by RL methods on Virtual Taobao ( RL+VTaobao ) with
supervised learning methods on the historical data ( SL+Data ). Note that Virtual Taobao is
constructed only from the historical data. To learn a engine policy using supervised learning
method, we divide the historical data Sinto two parts: S1contains the records with purchase
andS0contains the other.
The ﬁrst benchmark method, denoted by SL 1, is a classic regression model.

SL1=argmin1
jS1jX
(s;a)2S1j(s) aj2
The second benchmark SL 2modiﬁed the loss function and the optimal policy is deﬁned as
follow

SL2=argmin1
jS1jX
(s;a)2S1j(s) aj2 1
jS2jX
(s;a)2S2j(s) aj2+2
jSjX
(s;a)2Sj(s)j2
In our experiment, 1= 0:3and2= 0:001. As we can only compare two algorithms online
in the same time due to the resource limitation, we report the results of RL v.s. SL 1and RL v.s.
SL2respectively. The results of TT and TV improvements to SL policies are shown in Figure 7 .
The R2P in the real environment of SL 1, SL 2and RL are 0.096, 0.098 and 0.101 respectively.
TheRL+VTaobao is always better than SL+Data .
1200:0006:0012:0018:0024:000%2%4%6%8%Impr. of RL to SL1TTTV00:0006:0012:0018:0024:000%1%2%3%4%Impr. of RL to SL2TTTVFigure 7: Improvement of RL+VTaobao to SL 1+data & SL 2+data in Taobao
5 Conclusion
To overcome the high physical cost of training RL for commodities search in Taobao, we build
the Virtual Taobao simulator which is trained from historical data by GAN-SD and MAIL. The
empirical results have veriﬁed that it can reﬂect properties of the real environment faithfully. We
then train better engine policies with proposed ANC strategy in the Virtual Taobao, which has
been shown to have better real environment performance than the traditional SL approaches.
Virtualizing Taobao is very challenging. We hope this work can shed some light for applying RL
to complex physical tasks.
References
Argall, B. D., Chernova, S., Veloso, M., and Browning, B. A survey of robot learning from demonstration.
Robotics and autonomous systems , 57(5):469–483, 2009.
Baram, N., Anschel, O., and Mannor, S. Model-based adversarial imitation learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1612.02179 , 2016.
Chen, S.-Y ., Yu, Y ., Da, Q., Tan, J., Huang, H.-K., and Tang, H.-H. Stablizing reinforcement learning in
dynamic environment with application to online recommendation. In KDD’18 , London, UK, 2018.
Duan, Y ., Andrychowicz, M., Stadie, B., Ho, J., Schneider, J., Sutskever, I., Abbeel, P., and Zaremba, W.
One-shot imitation learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.07326 , 2017.
Farley, C. T. and Taylor, C. R. A mechanical trigger for the trot–gallop transition in horses. Science , 253
(5017):306–308, 1991.
Finn, C., Levine, S., and Abbeel, P. Guided cost learning: Deep inverse optimal control via policy
optimization. In ICML’16 , New York, USA, 2016.
Gao, J. and Jamidar, R. Machine learning applications for data center optimization. Google White Paper ,
2014.
13Goodfellow, I., Pouget-Abadie, J., Mirza, M, Xu, B., Warde-Farley, D., Ozair, S., Courville, A., and
Bengio, Y . Generative adversarial nets. In NIPS’14 , Montreal, Canada, 2014.
Ho, J. and Ermon, S. Generative adversarial imitation learning. In NIPS’16 , Barcelona, Spain, 2016.
Hoyt, D. F. and Taylor, C. R. Gait and the energetics of locomotion in horses. Nature , 192(16):239–240,
1981.
Hu, Y ., Da, Q., Zeng, A., Yu, Y ., and Xu, Y . Reinforcement learning to rank in e-commerce search engine:
Formalization, analysis, and application. In KDD’18 , London, UK, 2018.
Kretzschmar, H., Spies, M., Sprunk, C., and Burgard, W. Socially compliant mobile robot navigation via
inverse reinforcement learning. The International Journal of Robotics Research , 35(11):1289–1307,
2016.
Kueﬂer, A., Morton, J., Wheeler, T., and Kochenderfer, M. Imitating driver behavior with generative
adversarial networks. In IV’17 , Los Angeles, USA.
Mnih, V ., Badia, A. P., Mirza, M., Graves, A., Lillicrap, T., Harley, T., Silver, D., and Kavukcuoglu, K.
Asynchronous methods for deep reinforcement learning. In ICML’16 , New York, USA, 2016.
Mnih, V olodymyr, Kavukcuoglu, Koray, Silver, David, Graves, Alex, Antonoglou, Ioannis, Wierstra, Daan,
and Riedmiller, Martin. Playing atari with deep reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.5602 ,
2013.
Ng, A. Y ., Russell, S., et al. Algorithms for inverse reinforcement learning. In ICML’00 , San Francisco,
CA, 2000.
Pomerleau, D. A. Efﬁcient training of artiﬁcial neural networks for autonomous navigation. Neural
Computation , 3(1):88–97, 1992.
Ross, S. and Bagnell, D. Efﬁcient reductions for imitation learning. In AISTATS’10 , Sardinia, Italy, 2010.
Ross, S., Gordon, D., and Bagnell, D. A reduction of imitation learning and structured prediction to
no-regret online learning. In AISTATS’11 , Lauderdale, FL, 2011.
Russell, S. Learning agents for uncertain environments. In COLT’98 , Madison, Wisconsin, USA, 1998.
Schaal, S. Is imitation learning the route to humanoid robots? Trends in cognitive sciences , 3(6):233–242,
1999.
Silver, D., Huang, A., Maddison, C. J., Guez, A., Sifre, L., Driessche, G., Schrittwieser, J., Antonoglou, I.,
Panneershelvam, V ., Lanctot, M., et al. Mastering the game of go with deep neural networks and tree
search. Nature , 529(7587):484–489, 2016.
Stadie, B. C., Abbeel, P., and Sutskever, I. Third-person imitation learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1703.01703 , 2017.
14Su, P., Gasic, M., Mrksic, N., Rojas-Barahona, L., Ultes, S., Vandyke, D., Wen, T., and Young, S.
On-line active reward learning for policy optimisation in spoken dialogue systems. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1605.07669 , 2016.
15