pdfauthor
Deep Reinforcement Learning for Search,
Recommendation, and Online Advertising: A
Survey
Xiangyu Zhao, Michigan State University
Long Xia, JD.com
Jiliang Tang, Michigan State University
Dawei Yin, JD.com
Search, recommendation, and online advertising are the three most important information-providing
mechanisms on the web. These information seeking techniques, satisfying users' information needs
by suggesting users personalized objects (information or services) at the appropriate time and
place, play a crucial role in mitigating the information overload problem. With recent great ad-
vances in deep reinforcement learning (DRL), there have been increasing interests in developing
DRL based information seeking techniques. These DRL based techniques have two key advan-
tages { (1) they are able to continuously update information seeking strategies according to users'
real-time feedback, and (2) they can maximize the expected cumulative long-term reward from
users where reward has dierent denitions according to information seeking applications such as
click-through rate, revenue, user satisfaction and engagement. In this paper, we give an overview
of deep reinforcement learning for search, recommendation, and online advertising from method-
ologies to applications, review representative algorithms, and discuss some appealing research
directions.
1. INTRODUCTION
The explosive growth of the World Wide Web has generated massive data. As a conse-
quence, the information overload problem has become progressively severe [Chang et al.
2006]. Thus, how to identify objects that satisfy users’ information needs at the appropriate
time and place has become increasingly important, which has motivated three representa-
tive information seeking mechanisms – search, recommendation, and online advertising.
The search mechanism outputs objects that match the query, the recommendation mech-
anism generates a set of items that match users’ implicit preferences, and the online ad-
vertising mechanism is analogous to search and recommendation expect that the objects to
be presented are advertisements [Garcia-Molina et al. 2011]. Numerous efforts have been
made on designing intelligent methods for these three information seeking mechanisms.
However, traditional techniques often face several common challenges. First, the major-
ity of existing methods consider information seeking as a static task and generate objects
following a ﬁxed greedy strategy. This may fail to capture the dynamic nature of users
preferences (or environment). Second, most traditional methods are developed to max-
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 2019arXiv:1812.07127v5  [cs.IR]  17 Jan 20202 Xiangyu Zhao et al
imize the short-term reward, while completely neglecting whether the suggested objects
will contribute more in long-term reward [Shani et al. 2005]. Note that the reward has
different deﬁnitions among information seeking tasks, such as click-through rate (CTR),
revenue, and dwell time.
Recent years have witnessed the rapid development of reinforcement learning (RL) tech-
niques and a wide range of RL based applications. Under the RL schema, we tackle com-
plex problems by acquiring experiences through interactions with a dynamic environment.
The result is an optimal policy that can provide solutions to complex tasks without any
speciﬁc instructions [Kaelbling et al. 1996]. Employing RL for information seeking can
naturally resolve the aforementioned challenges. First, considering the information seeking
tasks as sequential interactions between an RL agent (system) and users (environment), the
agent can continuously update its strategies according to users’ real-time feedback during
the interactions, until the system converges to the optimal policy that generates objects best
match users dynamic preferences. Second, the RL frameworks are designed to maximize
the long-term cumulative reward from users. Therefore, the agent could identify objects
with small immediate reward but making big contributions to the reward in the long run.
Given the advantages of reinforcement learning, there have been tremendous interests in
developing RL based information seeking techniques. Thus, it is timely and necessary
to provide an overview of information seeking techniques from a reinforcement learning
perspective. In this survey, we present a comprehensive overview of state-of-the-art RL
based information seeking techniques and discuss some future directions. The remaining
of the survey is organized as follows. In Section 2, we introduce technical foundations of
reinforcement learning based information seeking techniques. Then we review the three
key information seeking tasks – search, recommendation, and online advertising – with
representative algorithms from Sections 3 to 5. Finally, we conclude the work with several
future research directions.
2. TECHNICAL FOUNDATIONS
Reinforcement learning is learning how to map situations to actions [Sutton and Barto
1998]. The two fundamental elements in RL are to formulate the situations (mathematical
models) and to learn the mapping (policy learning).
2.1 Problem Formulation
In reinforcement learning, there two main settings for problem formulations: multi-armed
bandits (without state transition) and Markov decision processes (with state transition).
2.1.1 Multi-Armed Bandits. The Multi-Armed Bandits (MABs) problem is a simple model
for the exploration/exploitation trade-off [Varaiya and Walrand 1983]. Formally, a K-
MAB can be deﬁned as follows.
Deﬁnition 2.1. AK-MAB is a 3-tuple hA;R;i, whereAis the set of actions (arms) and
jAj=K,r=R(a)is the reward distribution when performing action a, and policy 
describes probability distribution over the possible actions.
An arm with the highest expected reward is called the best arm (denoted as a) and its
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 2019Deep Reinforcement Learning for Search, Recommendation, and Online Advertising: A Survey  3
expected reward ris the optimal reward . An algorithm for MAB, at each time step t,
samples an arm atand receives a reward rt. When making its selection, the algorithm
depends on the history (i.e., actions and rewards) up to the time t-1. The contextual bandit
model (a.k.a. associative bandits or bandits with side information) is an extension of MAB
that takes additional information into account [Auer et al. 2002; Lu et al. 2010].
2.1.2 Markov Decision Process. A Markov decision process (MDP) is a classical for-
malization of sequential decision making, which is a mathematically idealized form of
reinforcement learning problem [Bellman 2013]. We deﬁne an MDP as follows.
Deﬁnition 2.2. A Markov Decision Process is a 5-tuple hS;A;T;R;i, whereSis a set
of states,Ais a discrete set of actions, Tis the state transition function st+1=T(st;at)
which speciﬁes a function mapping a state stinto a new state st+1in response to the
selected action at,r=R(s;a)is the reward distribution when performing action ain state
s, and policy (ajs)describes the behaviors of an agent which is a probability distribution
over the possible actions.
The agent and environment interact at each of a sequence of discrete time steps t=
f0;1;2;:::g. Consequently, a sequence or trajectory is generated asfs0;a0;r1;;st;at;
rt+1;g. In general, we seek to maximize the expected discounted return , where the re-
turnGtis deﬁned as: Gt=P1
k=0krr+k+1, where(01) is the discounted rate .
The Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP) is an extension of MDP to
the case where the state of the system is not necessarily observable [ ˚Astr¨om 1965; Small-
wood and Sondik 1973; Sondik 1978; Kaelbling et al. 1998].
2.1.3 Multi-Agent Setting. The generalization of the Markov Decision Process to the
Multi-Agent case is the stochastic game [Bowling and Veloso 2002; Shoham et al. 2003;
Busoniu et al. 2008] as:
Deﬁnition 2.3. A multi-agent game is a tuple hS;A 1;:::;An;T;R 1;:::;Rn;1;:::;ni,
wherenis the number of agents, Sis the discrete set of environment states, Aiis the
discrete set of actions for the agent i,Tis the state transition probability function, Riis
the reward function of agent i, andiis the policy adopted by agent i.
In the multi-agent game, the state transition is the result of the joint actions of all the agents
at= [aT
1;t;:::;aT
n;t]T, whereai;t2Aidenotes the action taken by agent iat time step t.
The rewardri;k+1also depends on the joint action. If 1==n, i.e., all the agents
adopt the same policy to maximize the same expected return, the multi-agent game is fully
cooperative. If n= 2and1= 2, i.e., the two agents have opposite policies, the game
is fully competitive. Mixed games are stochastic games that are neither fully cooperative
nor fully competitive.
2.2 Policy Learning
Reinforcement Learning is a class of learning problems in which the goal of an agent (or
multi-agent) to ﬁnd the policy to optimize some measures of its long-term performance.
RL solutions can be categorized in different ways. Here we investigate them from two
perspectives: whether the full model is available and the way of ﬁnding the optimal policy.
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 20194 Xiangyu Zhao et al
2.2.1 Model-based v.s. Model-free. Reinforcement learning algorithms, which explic-
itly learn system models and use them to solve MDP problems, are model-based methods.
Model-based RL has a strong inﬂuence from the control theory and is often explained
in terms of different disciplines. These methods include popular algorithms such as the
Dyna [Sutton 1991], Prioritized Sweeping [Moore and Atkeson 1993], Q-iteration [Buso-
niu et al. 2010], Policy Gradient (PG) [Williams 1992], and the variation of PG [Baxter
and Bartlett 2001; Kakade 2001]. The model-free methods ignore the model and just fo-
cus on ﬁguring out the value functions directly from the interaction with the environment.
To accomplish this, the methods depend on sampling and observation heavily; thus they
don’t need to know the inner working of the system. Some examples of these methods are
Q-learning [Kr ¨ose 1995], SARSA [Rummery and Niranjan 1994], LSPI [Lagoudakis and
Parr 2003], and Actor-Critic [Konda and Tsitsiklis 1999].
2.2.2 Value function v.s. Policy search. The algorithms, which ﬁrst ﬁnd the optimal value
functions and then extract optimal policies, are value function methods, such as Dyna,
Q-learning, SARSA, and DQN [Mnih et al. 2015]. The alternative approaches are pol-
icy search methods which solve an MDP problem by directly searching in the space of
policies. An important class of policy search methods is that of Policy Gradient (PG)
algorithms [Williams 1992; Baxter and Bartlett 2001; Kakade 2001; Deisenroth and Ras-
mussen 2011]. These methods target at modeling and optimizing the policy directly. The
policy is usually modeled with a parameterized function with respect to (ajs). The
value of the reward (objective) function depends on this policy and then various algorithms
can be applied to optimize for the best reward. There are a series of algorithms, which
use the PG to search in the policy space, and at the same time estimate a value function.
The important class of these methods are Actor-Critic (AC) and its variation [Konda and
Tsitsiklis 1999; Peters et al. 2005; Peters and Schaal 2008; Bhatnagar et al. 2007; Bhat-
nagar et al. 2009]. These are two-time-scale algorithms where the critic uses Temporal-
Difference (TD) learning with a linear approximation architecture and the actor is updated
in an approximate gradient direction based on information provided by the critic.
3. REINFORCEMENT LEARNING FOR SEARCH
Search aims to ﬁnd and rank a set of objects (e.g., documents, records) based on a user
query [Yin et al. ]. In this section, we review RL applications in key topics of search.
3.1 Query Understanding
Query understanding is the primary task for the search engine to understand users’ in-
formation needs. It can be potentially useful for improving general search relevance, user
experience, and helping users to accomplish tasks [Croft et al. 2010]. In [Nogueira and Cho
2017], RL has been leveraged to solve the query reformulation task: a query reformulation
framework is proposed based on a neural network, which rewrites a query to maximize the
number of relevant documents returned. In the proposed framework, a search engine is
treated as a black box that an agent learns to use in order to retrieve more relevant items,
which opens the possibility of training an agent to use a search engine for a task other
than the one it was originally intended for. Additionally, the upper-bound performance
of an RL-based model is estimated in a given environment. In [Nogueira et al. 2018], a
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 2019Deep Reinforcement Learning for Search, Recommendation, and Online Advertising: A Survey  5
multi-agent based method is introduced to efﬁciently learn diverse query reformulation. It
is argued that it is easier to train multiple sub-agents than a single generalist one since each
sub-agent only needs to learn a policy that performs well for a subset of examples. In the
proposed framework, an agent consists of multiple specialized sub-agents and a meta-agent
that learns to aggregate the answers from sub-agents to produce a ﬁnal answer. Thus, the
method makes learning faster with parallelism.
3.2 Ranking
Relevance Ranking is the core problem of information retrieval [Yin et al. 2016] and learn-
ing to rank (LTR) is the key technology in relevance ranking. In LTR, the approaches to
directly optimize the ranking evaluation measures are representative and have been proved
to be effective[Yue et al. 2007; Xu and Li 2007; Xu et al. 2008]. These methods usu-
ally only optimize the evaluation measure calculated at a predeﬁned ranking position, e.g.
NDCG at rank Kin [Xu and Li 2007]. The information carried by the documents after
the rankKare neglected. To solve such problem, in [Zeng et al. 2017], an LTR model,
MDPRank, is proposed based on Markov decision process, which has the ability to lever-
age the measures calculated at all of the ranking positions. The reward function is deﬁned
based upon the IR evaluation measures and the model parameters can be learned through
maximizing the accumulated rewards to all of the decisions. Implicit relevance feedback
refers to an interactive process between search engine and user, and has been proven to
be very effective for improving retrieval accuracy [Lv and Zhai 2009]. Both Bandits and
MDPs can model such an interactive process naturally [V orobev et al. 2015; Katariya et al.
2016; Katariya et al. 2017]. In [Kveton et al. 2015], cascading bandits are introduced to
identify the most attractive items, and the goal of the agent is to maximize its total reward
with respect to the list of the most attractive items. Through maintaining state transition,
MDP is able to model the user state in the interaction with search engine. In [Zeng et al.
2018], the interactive process is formulated as an MDP and the Recurrent Neural Network
is applied to process the feedback.
Beyond relevance ranking, another important goal is to provide search results that cover a
wide range of topics for a query, i.e., search result diversiﬁcation [Santos et al. 2015; Xu
et al. 2017]. Typical methods formulate the problem of constructing a diverse ranking as
a process of greedy sequential document selection. To select an optimal document for a
position, it is critical for a diverse ranking model to capture the utility of information users
have perceived from the preceding documents. To explicitly model the utility perceived
by the users, the construction of a diverse ranking is formalized as a process of sequential
decision making and the process is modeled as a continuous state Markov decision process,
referred to as MDP-DIV [Xia et al. 2017]. The ranking of Mdocuments is formalized
as a sequence of Mdecisions and each action corresponds to selecting one document
from the candidate set. In the parameter training phase, the policy gradient algorithm of
REINFORCE is adopted and the expected long-term discounted rewards in terms of the
diversity evaluation measure is maximized. More works for diversity ranking see [Feng
et al. 2018; Kapoor et al. 2018]
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 20196 Xiangyu Zhao et al
3.3 Whole-Page Optimization
To improve user experiences, modern search engines aggregate versatile results from dif-
ferent verticals – web-pages, news, images, video, shopping, knowledge cards, local maps,
etc. Page presentation is broadly deﬁned as the strategy to present a set of items on search
result page (SERP), which is much more expressive than a ranked list. Finding proper
presentation for a gallery of heterogeneous results is critical for modern search engines.
One approach of efﬁciently learning to optimize a large decision space is fractional facto-
rial design. However, the method could cause a combinatorial explosion problem with a
large search space. In [Hill et al. 2017], bandit formulation is applied to explore the lay-
out space efﬁciently and hill-climbing is used to select optimal content in real-time. The
model avoids a combinatorial explosion in model complexity by only considering pairwise
interactions between page components. This approach is a greedy alternating optimization
strategy that can run online in real-time. In [Wang et al. 2016; Wang et al. 2018], a frame-
work is proposed to learn the optimal page presentation to render heterogeneous results
onto SERP. It leveraged the MDP setting and the agent is designed as the algorithm that
determines the presentation of page content on a SERP for each incoming search query.
To solve the critical efﬁciency problem, it proposed a policy-based learning method which
can rapidly choose actions from the high-dimensional space.
3.4 Session Search
The task-oriented search includes a series of search iterations triggered by the query refor-
mulations within a session. Markov chain in session search is observed: users judgment
of search results in the prior iteration will inﬂuence users behaviors in the next search
iteration. Session search is modeled as a dual-agent stochastic game based on Partially
Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP) in [Luo et al. 2014]. They mathemati-
cally model dynamics in session search as a cooperative game between the user and the
search engine, while user and the search engine work together in order to jointly maximize
the long-term cumulative rewards. Log-based document re-ranking is a special type of
session search that re-ranks documents based on the historical search logs which includes
the target user’s personalized query log and other users’ search activities. The re-ranking
aims to offer a better order of the initial retrieved documents [Zhang et al. 2014]. Nowa-
days, deep reinforcement learning technology has been applied in the E-Commerce search
engine [Hu et al. 2018; Feng et al. 2018]. For better utilizing the correlation between dif-
ferent ranking steps, RL is used to learn an optimal ranking policy which maximizes the
expected accumulative rewards in a search session [Hu et al. 2018]. It formally deﬁned
the multi-step ranking problem in the search session as MDP, denoted as SSMDP, and pro-
posed a novel policy gradient algorithm for learning an optimal ranking policy, which is
able to deal with the problem of high reward variance and unbalanced reward distribution.
In [Feng et al. 2018], multi-scenario ranking is formulated as a fully cooperative, partially
observable, multi-agent sequential decision problem, denoted as MA-RDPG. MA-RDPG
has a communication component for passing message, several private agents for making
action for ranking, and a centralized critic for evaluating the overall performance of the
co-working agents. Agents collaborate with each other by sharing a global action-value
function and passing messages that encode historical information across scenarios.
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 2019Deep Reinforcement Learning for Search, Recommendation, and Online Advertising: A Survey  7
4. REINFORCEMENT LEARNING FOR RECOMMENDATION
Recommender systems target to capture users’ preferences according to their feedback (or
behaviors, e.g. rating and review) and suggest items that match their preferences. In this
section, we brieﬂy review how RL is adapted in several key tasks in recommendations.
4.1 Exploitation/Exploration Dilemma
Traditional recommender systems suffer from the exploitation-exploration dilemma, where
exploitation is to recommend items that are predicted to best match users’ preferences,
while exploration is to recommend items randomly to collect more users’ feedback. The
contextual bandit models an agent that attempts to balance the competing exploitation and
exploration tasks in order to maximize the accumulated long-term reward over a considered
period. The traditional strategies to balance exploitation and exploration in bandit setting
are-greedy [Watkins 1989], EXP3 [Auer et al. 2002], and UCB1 [Auer et al. 2002]. In
the news feeds scenario, the exploration/exploitation problem of personalized news rec-
ommendation is modeled as a contextual bandit problem [Li et al. 2010], and a learning
algorithm LinUCB is proposed to select articles sequentially for speciﬁc users based on
the users’ and articles’ contextual information, in order to maximize the total user clicks.
4.2 Temporal Dynamics
Most existing recommender systems such as collaborative ﬁltering, content-based and
learning-to-rank have been extensively studied with the stationary environment (reward)
assumption, where user’s preference is assumed to be static. However, this assumption is
usually not true in reality since users preferences are dynamic, thus the reward distribu-
tions usually change over time. In bandit setting, it usually introduces a variable reward
function to delineate the dynamic nature of the environment. For instance, the particle
learning based dynamical context drift model is proposed to model the changing of reward
mapping function in multi-armed bandit problem, where the drift of the reward mapping
function is learned as a group of random walk particles, and well ﬁtted particles are dy-
namically chosen to describe the mapping function [Zeng et al. 2016]. A contextual bandit
algorithm is presented to detect the changes of environment according to the reward es-
timation conﬁdence, and updates the arm selection policy accordingly [Wu et al. 2018].
The change-detection based framework under the piecewise-stationary reward assumption
for the multi-armed bandit problem is proposed in [Liu et al. 2018], where upper conﬁ-
dence bound (UCB) policies is used to detect change points actively and restart the UCB
indices. Another solution for capturing user’s dynamic preference is to introduce the MDP
setting [Chen et al. 2018; Liu et al. 2018; Zhao et al. ; Zou et al. 2019]. Under the MDP
setting, state is introduced to represent user’s preference and state transition captures the
dynamic nature of user’s preference over time. In [Zhao et al. ], a user’s dynamic prefer-
ence (agent’s state) is learned from his/her browsing history. Each time the recommender
system suggests an item to a user, the user will browse this item and provide feedback
(skip, click or purchase), which reveals user’s satisfaction of the recommended item. Ac-
cording to the feedback, the recommender system will update its state to represent user’s
new preferences [Zhao et al. ].
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 20198 Xiangyu Zhao et al
4.3 Long Term User Engagement
User engagement in recommendation is the assessment of user’s desirable (even essential)
responses to the items (products, services, or information) suggested by the recommender
systems [Lalmas et al. 2014]. User engagement can be measured not only in terms of im-
mediate response (e.g. clicks and rating of the recommended items), but more importantly
in terms of long-term response (e.g. user repetitively purchases) [Schopfer and Keller ].
In [Wu et al. 2017], the problem of long-term user engagement optimization is formulated
as a sequential decision making problem. In each iteration, the agent needs to estimate the
risk of losing a user based on the user’s dynamic response to past recommendations. Then,
a bandit based method [Wu et al. 2017] is introduced to balance the immediate user click
and the expected future clicks when the user revisits the recommender system. In practical
recommendation sessions, users will sequentially access multiple scenarios, such as the
entrance pages and the item detail pages, and each scenario has its own recommendation
strategy. A multi-agent reinforcement learning based approach (DeepChain) is proposed
in [Zhao et al. 2019], which can capture the sequential correlation among different scenar-
ios and jointly optimize multiple recommendation strategies. To be speciﬁc, model-based
reinforcement learning technique is introduced to reduce the training data requirement and
execute more accurate strategy updates. In the news feeds scenario [Zheng et al. 2018],
to incorporate more user feedback information, the long-term user response (i.e., how fre-
quent user returns) is considered as a supplement to user’s immediate click behaviors, and
a Deep Q-Learning based framework is proposed to optimize the news recommendation
strategies.
4.4 Page-Wise Recommendation
In practical recommender systems, each time users are typically recommended a page of
items. In this setting, the recommender systems need to jointly (1) select a set of comple-
mentary and diverse items from a larger candidate item set and (2) form an item display
(layout conﬁguration) strategy to place the items in a 2-D web page that can lead to maxi-
mal reward. Given the massive number of items, the action space is extremely large if we
treat each whole page recommendation as one action. To mitigate the issue of the large
action space, a Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient algorithm is proposed [Dulac-Arnold
et al. 2015] where the Actor generates a deterministic optimal action according to the cur-
rent state, and the Critic outputs the Q-value of this state-action pair. DDPG reduces the
computational cost of conventional value-based reinforcement learning methods, thus it is
a ﬁtting choice for the whole page recommendation setting [Cai et al. 2018a; Cai et al.
2018b]. Several approaches are presented recently to enhance the efﬁciency [Choi et al.
2018; Chen et al. 2018]. In [Zhao et al. ; Zhao et al. 2017], CNN techniques are intro-
duced to capture the item display patterns and users’ feedback of each item in the page. To
represent each item, item-embedding, category-embedding and feedback embedding are
leveraged, which can help to generate complementary and diverse recommendations and
capture user’s interests within the pages. Bandit techniques are also leveraged for whole-
page Recommendations [Wang et al. 2017; Lacerda 2017]. For instance, the whole page
recommendation task is considered as a combinatorial semi-bandit problem, where the sys-
tem recommends Sactions from a candidate set of Kactions, and displays the selected
items inS(out ofM) positions [Wang et al. 2017].
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 2019Deep Reinforcement Learning for Search, Recommendation, and Online Advertising: A Survey  9
5. REINFORCEMENT LEARNING FOR ONLINE ADVERTISING
The goal of online advertising is to assign the right advertisements to the right users so as
to maximize the revenue, click-through rate (CTR) or return on investment (ROI) of the ad-
vertising campaign. The two main marketing strategy in online advertising are guaranteed
delivery (GD) and real-time bidding (RTB).
5.1 Guaranteed Delivery
In guaranteed delivery, advertisements that share a single idea and theme are grouped into
campaigns, and are charged on a pay-per-campaign basis for the pre-speciﬁed number of
deliveries (click or impressions) [Salomatin et al. 2012]. Most popular GD (Guaranteed
Delivery) solutions are based on ofﬂine optimization algorithms, and then adjusted for on-
line setup. However, deriving the optimal strategy to allocate impressions is challenging,
especially when the environment is unstable in real-world application. In [Wu et al. 2018],
a multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) approach is proposed to derive cooperative
policies for the publisher to maximize its target in an unstable environment. They formu-
lated the impression allocation problem as an auction problem where each contract can
submit virtual bids for individual impressions. With this formulation, they derived the op-
timal impression allocation strategy by solving the optimal bidding functions for contracts.
5.2 Real-Time Bidding
RTB allows an advertiser to submit a bid for each individual impression in a very short
time frame. Ad selection task is typically modeled as multi-armed bandit (MAB) problem
with the setting that samples from each arm are iid, feedback is immediate and rewards
are stationary [Yang and Lu 2016; Nuara et al. 2018; Gasparini et al. 2018; Tang et al.
2013; Xu et al. 2013; Yuan et al. 2013; Schwartz et al. 2017]. The payoff functions of a
MAB are allowed to evolve, but they are assumed to evolve slowly over time. On the other
hand, display ads created while others are removed regularly in an advertising campaign
circulation. The problem of multi-armed bandits with budget constraints and variable costs
is studied in [Ding et al. ]. In this case, pulling the arms of bandit will get random rewards
with random costs, and the algorithm aims to maximize the long-term reward by pulling
arms with a constrained budget. This setting can model Internet advertising in a more
precise way than previous works where pulling an arm is costless or has a ﬁxed cost.
Under the MAB setting, the bid decision is considered as a static optimization problem of
either treating the value of each impression independently or setting a bid price to each
segment of ad volume. However, the bidding for a given ad campaign would repeatedly
happen during its life span before the budget running out. Thus, the MDP setting have also
been studied [Cai et al. 2017; Tang 2017; Wang et al. 2018; Zhao et al. 2018; Rohde et al.
2018; Wu et al. 2018; Jin et al. 2018]. A model-based reinforcement learning framework is
proposed to learn bid strategies in RTB advertising [Cai et al. 2017], where neural network
is used to approximate the state value, which can better deal with the scalability problem
of large auction volume and limited campaign budget. A model-free deep reinforcement
learning method is proposed to solve the bidding problem with constrained budget [Wu
et al. 2018]: the problem is modeled as a -control problem, and RewardNet is designed
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 201910 Xiangyu Zhao et al
for generating rewards to solve reward design trap, instead of using the immediate reward.
A multi-agent bidding model is presented, which takes the other advertisers’ bidding in
the system into consideration, and a clustering approach is introduced to solve the large
number of advertisers challenge [Jin et al. 2018].
6. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE DIRECTIONS
In this article, we present an overview of information seeking from the reinforcement learn-
ing perspective. We ﬁrst introduce mathematical foundations of RL based information
seeking approaches. Then we review state-of-the-art algorithms of three representative in-
formation seeking mechanisms – search, recommendations, and advertising. Next, we here
discuss some interesting research directions on reinforcement learning that can bring the
information seeking research into a new frontier.
First, most of the existing works train a policy within one scenario, while overlooking
users’ behaviors (preference) in other scenarios [Feng et al. 2018]. This will result in
a suboptimal policy, which calls for collaborative RL frameworks that consider search,
recommendation and advertising scenarios simultaneously. Second, the type of reward
function varies among different computational tasks. More sophisticated reward functions
should be designed to achieve more goals of information seeking, such as increasing the su-
pervising degree of recommendations. Third, more types of user-agent interactions could
be incorporated into RL frameworks, such as adding items into shopping cart, users’ repeat
purchase behavior, users’ dwelling time in the system, and user’s chatting with customer
service representatives or agent of AI dialog system. Fourth, testing a new algorithm is
expensive since it needs lots of engineering efforts to deploy the algorithm in the practi-
cal system, and it also may have negative impacts on user experience if the algorithm is
not mature. Thus online environment simulator or ofﬂine evaluation method based on his-
torical logs are necessary to pre-train and evaluate new algorithms before launching them
online. Finally, there is an increasing demand for an open online reinforcement learning
environment for information seeking, which can advance the RL and information seeking
communities and achieve better consistency between ofﬂine and online performance.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Xiangyu Zhao and Jiliang Tang are supported by the National Science Foundation (NSF)
under grant numbers IIS-1714741, IIS-1715940 and CNS-1815636, and a grant from Criteo
Faculty Research Award.
REFERENCES
˚ASTR¨OM, K. J. 1965. Optimal control of markov processes with incomplete state information. Journal of
Mathematical Analysis and Applications 10, 1, 174–205.
AUER, P., C ESA-BIANCHI , N., AND FISCHER , P. 2002. Finite-time analysis of the multiarmed bandit prob-
lem. Machine Learning 47, 2-3, 235–256.
AUER, P., C ESA-BIANCHI , N., F REUND , Y., AND SCHAPIRE , R. E. 2002. The nonstochastic multiarmed
bandit problem. SIAM J. Comput. 32, 1, 48–77.
BAXTER , J. AND BARTLETT , P. L. 2001. Inﬁnite-horizon policy-gradient estimation. J. Artif. Intell. Res. 15 ,
319–350.
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 2019Deep Reinforcement Learning for Search, Recommendation, and Online Advertising: A Survey  11
BELLMAN , R. 2013. Dynamic programming . Courier Corporation.
BHATNAGAR , S., S UTTON , R. S., G HAVAMZADEH , M., AND LEE, M. 2007. Incremental natural actor-critic
algorithms. In NIPS ’07 .
BHATNAGAR , S., S UTTON , R. S., G HAVAMZADEH , M., AND LEE, M. 2009. Natural actor-critic algorithms.
Automatica 45, 11, 2471–2482.
BOWLING , M. H. AND VELOSO , M. M. 2002. Multiagent learning using a variable learning rate. Artif.
Intell. 136, 2, 215–250.
BUSONIU , L., B ABUSKA , R., D ESCHUTTER , B., AND ERNST , D. 2010. Reinforcement learning and dy-
namic programming using function approximators . CRC press.
BUSONIU , L., B ABUSKA , R., AND SCHUTTER , B. D. 2008. A comprehensive survey of multiagent rein-
forcement learning. IEEE Trans. Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Part C 38, 2, 156–172.
CAI, H., R EN, K., Z HANG , W., M ALIALIS , K., W ANG , J., Y U, Y., AND GUO, D. 2017. Real-time bidding
by reinforcement learning in display advertising. In WSDM ’17 .
CAI, Q., F ILOS -RATSIKAS , A., T ANG , P., AND ZHANG , Y. 2018a. Reinforcement mechanism design for
e-commerce. In WWW ’18 .
CAI, Q., F ILOS -RATSIKAS , A., T ANG , P., AND ZHANG , Y. 2018b. Reinforcement mechanism design for
fraudulent behaviour in e-commerce. In AAAI ’18 .
CHANG , C., K AYED , M., G IRGIS , M. R., AND SHAALAN , K. F. 2006. A survey of web information extrac-
tion systems. IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng. 18, 10, 1411–1428.
CHEN, H., D AI, X., C AI, H., Z HANG , W., W ANG , X., T ANG , R., Z HANG , Y., AND YU, Y. 2018. Large-scale
interactive recommendation with tree-structured policy gradient. CoRR abs/1811.05869 .
CHEN, S., Y U, Y., D A, Q., T AN, J., H UANG , H., AND TANG , H. 2018. Stabilizing reinforcement learning
in dynamic environment with application to online recommendation. In SIGKDD ’18 .
CHOI, S., H A, H., H WANG , U., K IM, C., H A, J., AND YOON , S. 2018. Reinforcement learning based
recommender system using biclustering technique. CoRR abs/1801.05532 .
CROFT , W. B., B ENDERSKY , M., L I, H., AND XU, G. 2010. Query representation and understanding work-
shop. SIGIR Forum 44, 2, 48–53.
DEISENROTH , M. P. AND RASMUSSEN , C. E. 2011. PILCO: A model-based and data-efﬁcient approach to
policy search. In ICML ’11 .
DING, W., Q IN, T., Z HANG , X., AND LIU, T. Multi-armed bandit with budget constraint and variable costs.
InAAAI ’13 .
DULAC -ARNOLD , G., E VANS , R., VAN HASSELT , H., S UNEHAG , P., L ILLICRAP , T., H UNT, J., M ANN , T.,
WEBER , T., D EGRIS , T., AND COPPIN , B. 2015. Deep reinforcement learning in large discrete action spaces.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1512.07679 .
FENG, J., L I, H., H UANG , M., L IU, S., O U, W., W ANG , Z., AND ZHU, X. 2018. Learning to collaborate:
Multi-scenario ranking via multi-agent reinforcement learning. In WWW ’18 .
FENG, Y., X U, J., L AN, Y., G UO, J., Z ENG, W., AND CHENG , X. 2018. From greedy selection to exploratory
decision-making: Diverse ranking with policy-value networks. In SIGIR ’18 .
GARCIA -MOLINA , H., K OUTRIKA , G., AND PARAMESWARAN , A. G. 2011. Information seeking: conver-
gence of search, recommendations, and advertising. Commun. ACM 54, 11, 121–130.
GASPARINI , M., N UARA , A., T ROV `O, F., G ATTI , N., AND RESTELLI , M. 2018. Targeting optimization for
internet advertising by learning from logged bandit feedback. In IJCNN ’18 .
HILL, D. N., N ASSIF , H., L IU, Y., I YER, A., AND VISHWANATHAN , S. V. N. 2017. An efﬁcient bandit
algorithm for realtime multivariate optimization. In SIGKDD ’17 .
HU, Y., D A, Q., Z ENG, A., Y U, Y., AND XU, Y. 2018. Reinforcement learning to rank in e-commerce search
engine: Formalization, analysis, and application. In SIGKDD ’18 .
JIN, J., S ONG , C., L I, H., G AI, K., W ANG , J., AND ZHANG , W. 2018. Real-time bidding with multi-agent
reinforcement learning in display advertising. In CIKM ’18 .
KAELBLING , L. P., L ITTMAN , M. L., AND CASSANDRA , A. R. 1998. Planning and acting in partially
observable stochastic domains. Artif. Intell. 101, 1-2, 99–134.
KAELBLING , L. P., L ITTMAN , M. L., AND MOORE , A. W. 1996. Reinforcement learning: A survey. J. Artif.
Intell. Res. 4 , 237–285.
KAKADE , S. 2001. A natural policy gradient. In NIPS ’01 .
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 201912 Xiangyu Zhao et al
KAPOOR , S., K ESWANI , V., V ISHNOI , N. K., AND CELIS , L. E. 2018. Balanced news using constrained
bandit-based personalization. In IJCAI ’18 .
KATARIYA , S., K VETON , B., S ZEPESV ´ARI, C., V ERNADE , C., AND WEN, Z. 2017. Bernoulli rank-1 bandits
for click feedback. In IJCAI ’17 .
KATARIYA , S., K VETON , B., S ZEPESV ´ARI, C., AND WEN, Z. 2016. DCM bandits: Learning to rank with
multiple clicks. In ICML ’16 .
KONDA , V. R. AND TSITSIKLIS , J. N. 1999. Actor-critic algorithms. In NIPS ’99 .
KR¨OSE, B. J. A. 1995. Learning from delayed rewards. Robotics and Autonomous Systems 15, 4, 233–235.
KVETON , B., S ZEPESV ´ARI, C., W EN, Z., AND ASHKAN , A. 2015. Cascading bandits: Learning to rank in
the cascade model. In ICML ’15 .
LACERDA , A. 2017. Multi-objective ranked bandits for recommender systems. Neurocomputing 246 , 12–24.
LAGOUDAKIS , M. G. AND PARR, R. 2003. Least-squares policy iteration. Journal of Machine Learning
Research 4 , 1107–1149.
LALMAS , M., O’B RIEN , H., AND YOM-TOV, E. 2014. Measuring User Engagement . Synthesis Lectures on
Information Concepts, Retrieval, and Services. Morgan & Claypool Publishers.
LI, L., C HU, W., L ANGFORD , J., AND SCHAPIRE , R. E. 2010. A contextual-bandit approach to personalized
news article recommendation. In WWW ’10 .
LIU, F., L EE, J., AND SHROFF , N. B. 2018. A change-detection based framework for piecewise-stationary
multi-armed bandit problem. In AAAI ’18 .
LIU, F., T ANG , R., L I, X., Y E, Y., C HEN, H., G UO, H., AND ZHANG , Y. 2018. Deep reinforcement learning
based recommendation with explicit user-item interactions modeling. CoRR abs/1810.12027 .
LU, T., P ´AL, D., AND PAL, M. 2010. Contextual multi-armed bandits. In AISTATS ’10 .
LUO, J., Z HANG , S., AND YANG , H. 2014. Win-win search: dual-agent stochastic game in session search. In
SIGIR ’14 .
LV, Y. AND ZHAI, C. 2009. Adaptive relevance feedback in information retrieval. In CIKM ’09 .
MNIH, V., K AVUKCUOGLU , K., S ILVER , D., R USU, A. A., V ENESS , J., B ELLEMARE , M. G., G RAVES ,
A., R IEDMILLER , M. A., F IDJELAND , A., O STROVSKI , G., P ETERSEN , S., B EATTIE , C., S ADIK , A.,
ANTONOGLOU , I., K ING, H., K UMARAN , D., W IERSTRA , D., L EGG, S., AND HASSABIS , D. 2015.
Human-level control through deep reinforcement learning. Nature 518, 7540, 529–533.
MOORE , A. W. AND ATKESON , C. G. 1993. Prioritized sweeping: Reinforcement learning with less data
and less time. Machine Learning 13 , 103–130.
NOGUEIRA , R., B ULIAN , J., AND CIARAMITA , M. 2018. Learning to coordinate multiple reinforcement
learning agents for diverse query reformulation. CoRR abs/1809.10658 .
NOGUEIRA , R. AND CHO, K. 2017. Task-oriented query reformulation with reinforcement learning. In
EMNLP ’17 .
NUARA , A., T ROV `O, F., G ATTI , N., AND RESTELLI , M. 2018. A combinatorial-bandit algorithm for the
online joint bid/budget optimization of pay-per-click advertising campaigns. In AAAI ’18 .
PETERS , J. AND SCHAAL , S. 2008. Natural actor-critic. Neurocomputing 71, 7-9, 1180–1190.
PETERS , J., V IJAYAKUMAR , S., AND SCHAAL , S. 2005. Natural actor-critic. In ECML ’05 .
ROHDE , D., B ONNER , S., D UNLOP , T., V ASILE , F., AND KARATZOGLOU , A. 2018. Recogym: A
reinforcement learning environment for the problem of product recommendation in online advertising.
CoRR abs/1808.00720 .
RUMMERY , G. A. AND NIRANJAN , M. 1994. On-line Q-learning using connectionist systems . V ol. 37.
University of Cambridge, Department of Engineering Cambridge, England.
SALOMATIN , K., L IU, T., AND YANG , Y. 2012. A uniﬁed optimization framework for auction and guaranteed
delivery in online advertising. In CIKM ’12 .
SANTOS , R. L. T., M ACDONALD , C., AND OUNIS , I. 2015. Search result diversiﬁcation. Foundations and
Trends in Information Retrieval 9, 1, 1–90.
SCHOPFER , S. AND KELLER , T. Long term recommender benchmarking for mobile shopping list applications
using markov chains. In RecSys ’14 .
SCHWARTZ , E. M., B RADLOW , E. T., AND FADER , P. S. 2017. Customer acquisition via display advertising
using multi-armed bandit experiments. Marketing Science 36, 4, 500–522.
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 2019Deep Reinforcement Learning for Search, Recommendation, and Online Advertising: A Survey  13
SHANI , G., H ECKERMAN , D., AND BRAFMAN , R. I. 2005. An mdp-based recommender system. Journal of
Machine Learning Research 6 , 1265–1295.
SHOHAM , Y., P OWERS , R., AND GRENAGER , T. 2003. Multi-agent reinforcement learning: a critical survey.
Tech. rep., Technical report, Stanford University.
SMALLWOOD , R. D. AND SONDIK , E. J. 1973. The optimal control of partially observable markov processes
over a ﬁnite horizon. Operations Research 21, 5, 1071–1088.
SONDIK , E. J. 1978. The optimal control of partially observable markov processes over the inﬁnite horizon:
Discounted costs. Operations Research 26, 2, 282–304.
SUTTON , R. S. 1991. Dyna, an integrated architecture for learning, planning, and reacting. SIGART Bul-
letin 2, 4, 160–163.
SUTTON , R. S. AND BARTO , A. G. 1998. Introduction to reinforcement learning . V ol. 135. MIT press
Cambridge.
TANG , L., R OSALES , R., S INGH , A., AND AGARWAL , D. 2013. Automatic ad format selection via contextual
bandits. In CIKM ’13 .
TANG , P. 2017. Reinforcement mechanism design. In IJCAI ’17 .
VARAIYA , P. AND WALRAND , J. C. 1983. Multi-armed bandit problems and resource sharing systems. In
Computer Performance and Reliability, Proceedings of the International Workshop, Pisa, Italy, September
26-30, 1983 . 181–196.
VOROBEV , A., L EFORTIER , D., G USEV , G., AND SERDYUKOV , P. 2015. Gathering additional feedback on
search results by multi-armed bandits with respect to production ranking. In WWW ’15 .
WANG , W., J IN, J., H AO, J., C HEN, C., Y U, C., Z HANG , W., W ANG , J., W ANG , Y., L I, H., X U, J., AND
GAI, K. 2018. Learning to advertise with adaptive exposure via constrained two-level reinforcement learning.
CoRR abs/1809.03149 .
WANG , Y., O UYANG , H., W ANG , C., C HEN, J., A SAMOV , T., AND CHANG , Y. 2017. Efﬁcient ordered
combinatorial semi-bandits for whole-page recommendation. In AAAI ’17 .
WANG , Y., Y IN, D., J IE, L., W ANG , P., Y AMADA , M., C HANG , Y., AND MEI, Q. 2016. Beyond ranking:
Optimizing whole-page presentation. In WSDM ’16 .
WANG , Y., Y IN, D., J IE, L., W ANG , P., Y AMADA , M., C HANG , Y., AND MEI, Q. 2018. Optimizing whole-
page presentation for web search. TWEB 12, 3, 19:1–19:25.
WATKINS , C. J. C. H. 1989. Learning from delayed rewards. Ph.D. thesis, King’s College, Cambridge.
WILLIAMS , R. J. 1992. Simple statistical gradient-following algorithms for connectionist reinforcement
learning. Machine Learning 8 , 229–256.
WU, D., C HEN, C., Y ANG , X., C HEN, X., T AN, Q., X U, J., AND GAI, K. 2018. A multi-agent reinforcement
learning method for impression allocation in online display advertising. CoRR abs/1809.03152 .
WU, D., C HEN, X., Y ANG , X., W ANG , H., T AN, Q., Z HANG , X., X U, J., AND GAI, K. 2018. Budget
constrained bidding by model-free reinforcement learning in display advertising. In CIKM ’18 .
WU, Q., I YER, N., AND WANG , H. 2018. Learning contextual bandits in a non-stationary environment. In
SIGIR ’18 .
WU, Q., W ANG , H., H ONG , L., AND SHI, Y. 2017. Returning is believing: Optimizing long-term user
engagement in recommender systems. In CIKM ’17 .
XIA, L., X U, J., L AN, Y., G UO, J., Z ENG, W., AND CHENG , X. 2017. Adapting markov decision process
for search result diversiﬁcation. In SIGIR ’17 .
XU, J. AND LI, H. 2007. Adarank: a boosting algorithm for information retrieval. In SIGIR ’07 .
XU, J., L IU, T., L U, M., L I, H., AND MA, W. 2008. Directly optimizing evaluation measures in learning to
rank. In SIGIR ’08 .
XU, J., X IA, L., L AN, Y., G UO, J., AND CHENG , X. 2017. Directly optimize diversity evaluation measures:
A new approach to search result diversiﬁcation. ACM TIST 8, 3, 41:1–41:26.
XU, M., Q IN, T., AND LIU, T. 2013. Estimation bias in multi-armed bandit algorithms for search advertising.
InNIPS ’13 .
YANG , H. AND LU, Q. 2016. Dynamic contextual multi arm bandits in display advertisement. In ICDM ’16 .
YIN, D., H U, Y., T ANG , J., D ALY, T., Z HOU , M., O UYANG , H., C HEN, J., K ANG , C., D ENG, H., N OBATA ,
C., ET AL . Ranking relevance in yahoo search. In SIGKDD’16 .
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 201914 Xiangyu Zhao et al
YIN, D., H U, Y., T ANG , J., J R., T. D., Z HOU , M., O UYANG , H., C HEN, J., K ANG , C., D ENG, H., N OBATA ,
C., L ANGLOIS , J., AND CHANG , Y. 2016. Ranking relevance in yahoo search. In SIGKDD ’16 .
YUAN, S., W ANG , J., AND VAN DER MEER, M. 2013. Adaptive keywords extraction with contextual bandits
for advertising on parked domains. CoRR abs/1307.3573 .
YUE, Y., F INLEY , T., R ADLINSKI , F., AND JOACHIMS , T. 2007. A support vector method for optimizing
average precision. In SIGIR ’07 .
ZENG, C., W ANG , Q., M OKHTARI , S., AND LI, T. 2016. Online context-aware recommendation with time
varying multi-armed bandit. In SIGKDD ’16 .
ZENG, W., X U, J., L AN, Y., G UO, J., AND CHENG , X. 2017. Reinforcement learning to rank with markov
decision process. In SIGIR ’17 .
ZENG, W., X U, J., L AN, Y., G UO, J., AND CHENG , X. 2018. Multi page search with reinforcement learning
to rank. In ICTIR ’18 .
ZHANG , S., L UO, J., AND YANG , H. 2014. A POMDP model for content-free document re-ranking. In SIGIR
’14.
ZHAO, J., Q IU, G., G UAN, Z., Z HAO, W., AND HE, X. 2018. Deep reinforcement learning for sponsored
search real-time bidding. In SIGKDD ’18 .
ZHAO, X., X IA, L., Z HANG , L., D ING, Z., Y IN, D., AND TANG , J. Deep reinforcement learning for page-
wise recommendations. In ResSys’18 .
ZHAO, X., X IA, L., Z HAO, Y., T ANG , J., AND YIN, D. 2019. Model-based reinforcement learning for
whole-chain recommendations. arXiv preprint arXiv:1902.03987 .
ZHAO, X., Z HANG , L., D ING, Z., X IA, L., T ANG , J., AND YIN, D. Recommendations with negative feed-
back via pairwise deep reinforcement learning. In SIGKDD’18 .
ZHAO, X., Z HANG , L., D ING, Z., Y IN, D., Z HAO, Y., AND TANG , J. 2017. Deep reinforcement learning for
list-wise recommendations. arXiv preprint arXiv:1801.00209 .
ZHENG , G., Z HANG , F., Z HENG , Z., X IANG , Y., Y UAN, N. J., X IE, X., AND LI, Z. 2018. DRN: A deep
reinforcement learning framework for news recommendation. In WWW ’18 .
ZOU, L., X IA, L., D ING, Z., Y IN, D., S ONG , J., AND LIU, W. 2019. Reinforcement learning to diversify
recommendations. In DASFAA ’19 .
Xiangyu Zhao is a Ph.D. student of computer science and engineering at Michigan State University (MSU).
His supervisor is Dr. Jiliang Tang. Before joining MSU, he completed his MS(2017) at USTC and BS(2014)
at UESTC. He is the student member of IEEE, SIGIR, and SIAM. His current research interests include data
mining and machine learning, especially (1) Reinforcement Learning for E-commerce; (2) Urban Computing and
Spatio-Temporal Data Analysis. After joining MSU, he has published his work in top journals (e.g. SIGKDD
Explorations) and conferences (e.g., KDD, ICDM, CIKM, RecSys). He was the recipients of the RecSys18,
KDD18, SDM18, and CIKM17 Student Travel Award.
Long Xia is a research scientist in Data Science Lab at JD.com. He is now mainly responsible for applying
advanced technology to the E-commerce recommender system in JD.com. Before that, he received his Ph.D. in
Computer Science from Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences. His research interests
include data mining, applied machine learning, information retrieval, and recommender system. He has published
his research in top journals and conferences, e.g. TIST, SIGIR, KDD, RecSys.
Jiliang Tang is an assistant professor in the computer science and engineering department at Michigan State
University. Before that, he was a research scientist in Yahoo Research and got his PhD from Arizona State
University in 2015. He has broad interests in social computing, data mining and machine learning. He was
the recipients of the Best Paper Award in ASONAM 2018, the Best Student Paper Award in WSDM2018, the
Best Paper Award in KDD2016, the runner up of the Best KDD Dissertation Award in 2015, Dean’s Dissertation
Award and the best paper shortlist of WSDM2013. He is now associate editors of ACM TKDD, ICWSM and
Neurocomputing. He has published his research in highly ranked journals and top conference proceedings, which
received thousands of citations and extensive media coverage.
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 2019Deep Reinforcement Learning for Search, Recommendation, and Online Advertising: A Survey  15
Dawei Yin is Senior Director at JD.com, leading the science efforts of recommendation, search, metrics and
knowledge graph. Prior to joining JD.com, he was Senior Research Manager at Yahoo Labs, leading relevance
science team and in charge of Core Search Relevance of Yahoo Search. He obtained Ph.D. (2013), M.S. (2010)
from Lehigh University and B.S. (2006) from Shandong University. His research interests include data mining,
applied machine learning, information retrieval and recommender system. He published tens of research papers
in premium conferences and journals, and won WSDM2016 best paper award, KDD2016 best paper award, and
WSDM2018 best student paper award.
SIGWEB Newsletter Spring 2019